IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
295
Efﬁcient and Fault Tolerant Data Stream Processing
With Uncertain Data Rates in Serverless Edge
Computing
Zichuan Xu
, Member, IEEE, Peichen Liu
, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Qiufen Xia
, Member, IEEE,
Weifa Liang
, Fellow, IEEE, Guangyuan Xu
, Wenzheng Xu
, Member, IEEE,
Pan Zhou
, Senior Member, IEEE, and Hao Li
Abstract—Data stream processing is a functionality of various
AI applications to obtain continuous insights fromdata streams.
Serverless edge computing (SEC) is a key solution for implementing
data stream processing requests by deploying serverless functions
into cloudlets. However, existing data stream processing methods
focus more on processing delay, ignoring fault tolerance and com-
plex dependencies among functions, resulting in critical events
being missed in the event of any fault and processing inefﬁciency.
Besides, due to the uncertainty of data streams, existing function
deployment methods may not be suitable for their newly changed
data rates, causing resource waste or shortages. To address these
problems, we ﬁrst propose an optimization framework to enable
efﬁcient and fault tolerant function deployment, such that the delay
of data stream processing is minimized while meeting its fault tol-
erant requirements and resource capacity constraints of cloudlets
in an SEC network. We then design an online learning algorithm
that predicts data rate changes through a multi-timescale machine
learning method and proactively adjusts instance locations and
numbers to absorb data rate uncertainty. Experimental results in a
real test-bed show that our proposed algorithms outperform their
counterparts by 13.5% on the average delay and 26.3% on the
average fault tolerance.
Received 22 December 2024; revised 16 October 2025; accepted 14 De-
cember 2025. Date of publication 23 December 2025; date of current version
5 February 2026. The work of Zichuan Xu and Qiufen Xia was supported in
part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) under Grant
62172068 Grant 62172071, in part by Shandong Provincial Natural Science
Foundation under Grant ZR2023LZH008, Grant ZR2023LZH013, and Grant
ZR2023LZH016, in part by the joint research project with China Coal Research
Institute under Grant 2022-3-KJHZ003, and in part by the CCF-Ant Research
Fund. (Corresponding author: Wenzheng Xu.)
Zichuan Xu and Guangyuan Xu are with the School of Software, Dalian
University of Technology, China (e-mail: z.xu@dlut.edu.cn; 32017112@mail.
dlut.edu.cn).
Peichen Liu and Qiufen Xia are with the International School of Informa-
tion Science and Engineering, Dalian University of Technology, China, and
also with the Key Laboratory for Ubiquitous Network and Service Software
of Liaoning Province, Dalian 116024, China (e-mail: liupeichen@mail.dlut.
edu.cn; qiufenxia@dlut.edu.cn).
Weifa Liang is with the Department of Computer Science, City University of
Hong Kong, China (e-mail: weifa.liang@cityu.edu.hk).
Wenzheng Xu is with the Department of Computer Science, Sichuan Univer-
sity, Chengdu 610000, China (e-mail: wenzheng.xu@scu.edu.cn).
Pan Zhou is with the School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China (e-mail:
panzhou@hust.edu.cn).
Hao Li is with the Institute of Software, China Coal Research Institute, Beijing
100013, China (e-mail: hateif@163.com).
This
article
has
supplementary
downloadable
material
available
at
https://doi.org/10.1109/TSC.2025.3647054, provided by the authors.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TSC.2025.3647054
Index
Terms—Serverless
edge
computing,
data
stream
processing, uncertain data rate, online learning.
I. INTRODUCTION
D
RIVEN by the widespread adoption of Internet of Things
(IoT) services [1] and the increasing reliance on AI
services [2], data stream processing applications have gained
prominence in domains of ﬁnance, telecommunications, health-
care,logistics,andetc.Theseapplicationsrequireextremely-low
delays to guarantee timely processing and response to data
stream processing requests for effective decision-making. For
instance, in ﬁnance, real-time analysis of market data streams is
crucial for making split-second investment decisions. However,
in data stream processing applications, there are faulty events,
including semantic anomalies or rule conﬂicts. Thus, the tolera-
bility to faulty events of such stream processing applications is
another vital requirement for users. Fault tolerance requirements
refer to maintaining the data stream processing continuity with
faulty events, and ensuring the recoverability of the processing.
Failing to meet the fault tolerance requirement may interrupt the
continuously processing of data streams, thereby missing critical
events hidden in data streams [3]. For example, in industrial
equipment monitoring, if fault tolerance can not be met, critical
data may be missed, causing production interruptions [4].
Mobile edge computing (MEC) empowered by the technique
of serverless is emerging as the key technology for data stream
processing [5]. Based on the Function-as-a-Service (FaaS),
serverless edge computing (SEC) abstracts away the complexity
of resource and allows applications to be provided in code-
level functions, enabling efﬁcient and fault tolerant data stream
processing [6]. Speciﬁcally, the cloud service provider of an
SEC network usually deploys agile and lightweight serverless
functions in cloudlets within the proximity of users to implement
their data stream requests. As such, the delay experienced by
users is reduced by implementing data stream processing in
an SEC network. Besides, through the active standby failover
mechanism, the SEC network can deploy lightweight standby
instances to meet fault tolerance requirements, as the active
functions can quickly switch to standby instances when a fault
occurs.
The current function deployment technique of MEC or server-
less computing may not solely guarantee the efﬁciency and
fault tolerant requirements of data stream processing requests.
Serverless computing in data centers may easily provide enough
standby instances using abundant computing resources [7].
1939-1374 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artiﬁcial intelligence and similar technologies.
Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
296
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
However, conventional MEC networks may not ensure fault tol-
erant data stream processing, due to their capacitated resources
and the fact that an MEC network may not provide enough
standby instances for all requests. Thus, directly application of
such methods to an SEC network may easily cause resource
violations [8]. Once the failure of a single function, the whole
application will malfunction if there is no standby instance,
resulting in higher recovery delays and inefﬁcient function
processing. Besides, the data rate of data stream processing
applications is uncertain. The uncertain data streams may lead
to changes in resource requirements, and pre-placed serverless
functions may not be able to adapt to the new resource require-
ments. Therefore, we need to proactively adjust the number and
locations of standby instances, thereby improving the efﬁciency
and fault tolerance of serverless functions with uncertain data
rates.
Speciﬁcally, enabling efﬁcient and fault tolerant data stream
processing in SEC networks poses fundamental challenges.
First, the serverless functions of each data stream processing
request have complexly dependencies. For example, an au-
tonomous driving service may need an AI pipeline consisting of
sensingdatafromradar,image,vehiclestatus,andinferences[9].
Due to complex dependencies of code-level functions may
incur the high delay during data stream processing if the lo-
cations of the functions are not carefully deployed. Therefore,
considering the dependencies of functions, it is challenging to
implement efﬁcient data stream processing via careful function
placements. Second, the fault tolerance is a key factor to guar-
antee the availability of data stream processing services. For
example, in healthcare services on heart diseases or respiratory
diseases, any failure or delay in the processing of their stream
data may lead to a late diagnosis of a critical disease. The
highly distributed and constrained resources of the SEC network
further complicate the recovery from faulty functions, because
the number of standby instances may not be enough to satisfy
fault tolerant requirements of requests due to resource availabil-
ity [10]. Therefore, given the distributed and limited resources of
anSECnetwork,itischallengingtoselectanappropriatenumber
of standby instances for each function. Third, the data rate of
each data stream processing request may have uncertainty and
ﬂuctuate over time. The pre-allocated functions may not be able
to meet changing data rates. Speciﬁcally, it is necessary to design
a suitable data rate prediction algorithm to dynamically predict
changes in the data rate and relocate standby instances to avoid
resource shortage or waste. However, due to the periodic nature
of data rate changes, it is challenging to accurately predict data
using traditional prediction methods, which poses a challenge
for the relocation of proactive functions.
However, most existing studies either ignored dependencies
among serverless functions [11], or did not consider fault toler-
ant requirements of each data steam requests [12], [13]. Also,
there are rarely studies that take data rate uncertainty of data
stream processing into consideration in SEC networks [14],
[15]. To address the above-mentioned challenges, we consider
the problem of data stream processing with uncertain data rates
in an SEC network, by minimizing the delay while meeting
the fault tolerant requirement of users. We ﬁrst investigate the
problem of the efﬁcient and fault tolerant function placement
for data stream processing requests in an SEC network, by
considering both fault tolerant requirements of requests and
resource capacitated constraints of cloudlets. We then study the
problem of proactive data stream processing request adjustment
by re-locating serverless functions with different resources.
The main contributions of this paper are as follows.
r We ﬁrst design an optimization framework for implement-
ing data stream processing requests with given data rates
to determine the appropriate number of standby instances
and ﬁnd locations of serverless function and their standby
instances for each function in the SEC network, such
that the delay is minimized while satisfying fault tolerant
requirements of each request and resource constraints of
cloudlets in an SEC network.
r Consider that the data rates of data stream requests are
dynamically changing and uncertain, we propose a multi-
timescale machine learning-based online algorithm to pre-
dict changes in data rates and proactively adjust the number
and locations of existing standby instances of serverless
functions, such that the changes of uncertain data rates can
be absorbed.
r We evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithms
based on a real test-bed and real-world datasets and results
show that our algorithms outperform existing works by
13.5% on the average delay and 26.3% on the average fault
tolerance.
The rest of the paper is arranged as follows. Section II reviews
related studies. Section III introduces the system model and
problem deﬁnitions. Section IV proposes an optimization frame-
work for the problem of fault tolerant function placement with
given data rates. Section V devises an online learning algorithm
for the proactive data stream request adjustment problem with
uncertain data rates. Section VI evaluates the performance of
the proposed algorithms experimentally with a real test-bed and
real-world datasets. Section VII concludes the paper.
II. RELATED WORK
Data stream processing is a fundamental functionality of
various stream processing applications. Various systems, archi-
tectures and algorithms in serverless computing are designed
to enable efﬁcient data stream processing [16], [17], [18]. For
example, Song et al. [17] designed a new stream processing
serverless system that enables fast reactive scaling of stream
queries. These studies however focus on enabling the efﬁciency
of data stream processing in data centers with abundant re-
sources. Direct implementation of such methods into MEC
networks may not guarantee the performance of data stream
processing, because cloudlets may not have enough resources
to process data streams.
Enabling data stream processing in MEC networks has at-
tracted attention in the past few years [8], [12], [19], [20], [21].
For example, Liu et al. [8] proposed a scalable and adaptive
stream processing method in an MEC network, to handle con-
current IoT queries in the network. Fu et al. [21] proposed a new
framework for edge stream processing with a congestion-aware
scheduler. However, the above-mentioned works did not con-
sider an SEC network that implements data stream processing
via provisioning a set of serverless functions.
SEC can effectively provide highly-available edge resources
for data stream processing applications in code-level func-
tions [10], [18]. Existing studies on SEC mainly focused on
generic applications, by reducing the cold start delay and im-
proving the resource utilization of edge nodes [11], [22], [23],
[24]. However, none of them focus on data stream processing
in SEC networks. For instance, Roy et al. [22] proposed a
technique to reduce time costs by strategically warming up a
serverless function based on its time-varying probability of the
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
XU et al.: EFFICIENT AND FAULT TOLERANT DATA STREAM PROCESSING WITH UNCERTAIN DATA RATES IN SERVERLESS EDGE COMPUTING
297
TABLE I
COMPARISON OF EXISTING WORKS AND OUR WORK
TABLE II
NOTATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
next invocation. Kaffeis et al. [24] devised an efﬁcient algorithm
to schedule serverless functions in server clusters. Besides, none
of these works considered the fault tolerance problem incurred
by serverless function failures.
Fault tolerance is an important method to ensure high avail-
ability of services [25]. Existing works have initially addressed
the problem of fault tolerance in serverless architecture by
proposing algorithms or systems [7], [26], [27], [28]. Most of
such investigations are not performed in the context of SEC
networks. Besides, most of these proposed methods are not
particularly designed for data stream processing. For example,
Qi et al. [27] proposed a serverless system for fault-tolerant
statefulserverlesscomputing, byleveragingasymmetriclogging
as a foundation. Zhang et al. [7] proposed a system for fault
tolerant stateful serverless workﬂows. Barrak et al. [28] intro-
duced a peer-to-peer serverless architecture with fault tolerance
mechanism for AI model training.
To sum up, although existing studies have proposed various
methods to separately optimize data stream processing, function
effectiveness, and fault tolerance, there are no works that can
address efﬁcient and fault-tolerant data stream processing in
SECnetworks.Besides,existingworksdonotconsideruncertain
data rates. In this work, we consider the problem of data stream
processing with uncertain data rates in an SEC network, by
adopting active-standby failover mechanisms and minimizing
the delay while meeting the fault tolerant requirement. The
comparison of existing works and our work is shown in Table I.
III. PRELIMINARIES
In this section, we introduce the system model, notions and
notations, and deﬁne the optimization problems precisely. All
the symbols used in this paper are listed in Table II.
A. System Model
We consider an SEC network G = (V, E) operated by a
cloud-native service provider, with a set V of cloudlets providing
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
298
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 1.
An example of implementing data stream processing in an SEC
network.
services within the proximity of users, and a set E of backhaul
links/paths interconnect the cloudlets. Fig. 1 shows an example
of the SEC network. Each cloudlet clj ∈CL usually consists
of several servers or accelerators, and is either attached to an
access point or located in the backhaul of the SEC network.
Due to the space limitation of each edge location, a cloudlet
usuallyhasacertainamountofresourcestoprocessdatastreams.
We consider that the resources of each cloudlet are virtualized
using cloud-native technologies, and offered to users in terms of
serverless functions. According to the popular serverless plat-
forms [29], [30], we assume that the memory resource is the key
resource type demanded by serverless functions. Speciﬁcally,
each cloudlet clj has memory capacity for executing tasks in
serverless functions, which is denoted by C(clj).
B. Data Stream Processing in an SEC Network
Nowadays, many AI applications, such as autonomous driv-
ing, trafﬁc monitoring, virtual reality, and augmented reality,
require continuous data stream processing. For instance, in an
autonomous driving system, the trafﬁc events captured by vehi-
cles need to be processed timely such that the system can make
real-time decisions [9], [31]. Further, in an AR application, the
video stream captured by an AR headset needs to be processed
timely, such that virtual objects can be augmented into the stream
in no time [32], [33]. Considering the wide existence of data
stream processing in many applications, many production-level
data analytic systems, such as Apache Kafka [34] or Flink [35],
etc., support data stream processing. In such systems, users issue
requests to process data streams of their applications. Let rm be a
data stream processing request in an SEC network, which can be
implemented in serverless functions that are submitted directly
to the SEC network.
Serverless-enabled requests are implemented in code-level
functions that are independent on each other. Therefore, a data
stream processing request rm is represented by a Directed
Acyclic Graph (DAG) [24], [36] with nodes representing server-
less functions and edges denoting the data ﬂows among the
serverless functions. Let G′
m = (V ′
m, E′
m) be such a DAG of
serverless functions, where V ′
m is the set of serverless functions
of rm and E′
m is the set of data ﬂows among the serverless
functions of rm. There is a source function and a sink function,
and the data stream originates from the source function and
terminates at the sink function, which are denoted by sm and
tm, respectively. Denote by fl a function in V ′
m, which needs to
process the data streams that are passed on by its predecessor in
DAG G′
m.
C. Uncertain Data Rates of Data Stream Processing Requests
Thedatastreamofadatastreamprocessingrequestrm istime-
varying and depends on many factors, such as the stability of data
sources, the environment, and the network bandwidth [37]. For
Fig. 2.
An example of the placement of a data stream processing request into
an SEC network.
example, in a medical monitoring system, human digital twins
continuously collect the data of patients and update their data
stream of the health situation timely. We thus deﬁne the rate
of the data stream arrivals as data rate. Assuming that time is
equally divided into equal slots, the data rate of rm is deﬁned as
the volume of data arriving into the system per time unit in time
slot τ. Let ρm,τ be the data rate of the request rm in τ. Although
the data rate of a data stream processing request can be obtained
on its arrival, the future data rates in subsequent time slots may
be uncertain. Therefore, the placement of the functions of each
data stream processing request needs to be proactive, such that
the data stream processing request does not need to be migrated
frequently due to changes in data rate. Without loss of generality,
we assume that the memory resource required to implement a
data stream processing request rm is proportional to its data rate,
i.e., γ · ρm,τ, where γ is the unit of memory resource allocated to
process a unit data rate. Fig. 2 shows an example of a data stream
processing request and its implementation in an SEC network.
D. Fault Tolerant Requirements of Data Stream Processing
Requests
Faults can occur anywhere and at anytime in a network
due to natural disasters at the locations of cloudlets, software
malfunctions in the system, hardware failures, and etc. In SEC
networks, the fault tolerance is crucial to guarantee the timely
and continuous processing of data streams, considering that
serverless functions usually execute a small piece of code
with complex dependencies. Active-standby failover mecha-
nisms [38] are usually adopted to avoid the failures of function
execution. In an active-standby failover, an active function of
data stream processing request rm is placed into a cloudlet, and
a few standby instances of the function are placed into other
cloudlets [39]. Note that the number of standby instances of
each function guarantees the fault-tolerant requirements and the
efﬁciency of the system. Too many standby instances may lead
to a high maintenance cost, while too few standby instances may
not be able to respond to failures proactively.
Each data stream processing request rm needs 1 + nm in-
stances for each function of its DAG G′
m to guarantee its fault
tolerant requirement, with one active instance and nm standby
instances. We assume that 1 + nm ≤|V |, that is, the number of
standby instances of each function is no greater than the number
of cloudlets in the SEC network. The rationale behind this is that
there is at most an active function or a standby instance for each
function in each cloudlet. The value of nm determines the fault
tolerance of each function of data stream processing request rm.
Denote by pl failure probability of function fl. Notice that pl can
be predicted by machine learning algorithms [40]. Let Pr(fl)
be the probability of at least one instance of function fl is fault
tolerant, then, Pr(fl) = 1 −(pl)nm+1. To ensure the quality of
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
XU et al.: EFFICIENT AND FAULT TOLERANT DATA STREAM PROCESSING WITH UNCERTAIN DATA RATES IN SERVERLESS EDGE COMPUTING
299
data stream processing, we consider each request rm has a fault
tolerant requirement δm given a priori in [38], we have
Πfl∈V ′mPr(fl) ≥δm.
(1)
Note that a large number of standby instances determined by
nm may lead to higher resource consumption and consequent
resource violations. Thus, the value of nm needs to make a trade-
off between fault tolerant requirements and resource constraints.
E. Delay Model
The delays experienced by a data stream processing request
rm consist of the processing delay by functions of rm, transmis-
sion delays among the functions, and the recovering delays of
from a failed function to a standby instance.
The processing delay of data stream processing request rm
mainly depends on both its data rate and the memory resource
allocated to itself [41]. The reason is that with more memory
resource allocated to rm, more data can be loaded to the mem-
ory at the same time, and thus reducing the overhead due to
memory management overhead. Denote by Mj the amount of
memory allocated by cloudlet CLj to process a unit data rate.
The inﬂuence factor that captures cloudlet CLj’s impact on
memory allocation on the processing delay is αj. Besides, the
processing delay includes cold start delay, which is related to
whether the current cloudlet has idle function instances. We use
a binary variable xm,l,j,τ to represent whether function fl of
rm is assigned to cloudlet CLj in time slot τ. On one hand,
if there are no idle function instances, a function of rm has
to been instantiated. Consequently, a cold-start delay has to be
included in the processing delay. Let do
l,j be the cold-start delay
incurred by instantiating a function fl in CLj. Note that the
cold-start delay can be given a priori constant by periodic time
series prediction methods [42]. On the other hand, there may be
someidlefunctioninstances.Wethususeanotherbinaryvariable
x′
m,l,j,τ to show whether function fl of rm is newly-instantiated
in CLj in time slot τ (x′
m,l,j,τ = 1) or is assigned to an existing
function instance (x′
m,l,j,τ = 0). Let dproc
m,l,j,τ be the processing
delay by a function fl of rm in CLj at τ, then,
dproc
m,l,j,τ = xm,l,j,τ · αj · Mj · ρm,τ + x′
m,l,j,τ · do
l,j.
(2)
The transmission delay of the data stream processing request
rm is incurred by the execution path of functions in its DAG.
There exist multiple execution paths in DAG G′
m of rm from its
source function sm to sink function tm. Let P′ be the execution
paths from source function sm to the sink function tm in G′
m,
and p′ be one of such paths. Denote by p and P a path in the SEC
network to which the execution path p′ in G′
m is mapped and the
set of such paths, respectively. Let ps be a segment of p, and the
number of functions in the execution path p′ of Gf is |p′|. We use
a indicator variable zp′,p,τ to indicate whether p′ ∈P′ is mapped
to p ∈P in time slot τ. The sum of processing and transmission
delays of rm in τ is the maximum delay of the execution paths
in P′ incurred by the processing of functions and transmission
of data streams in paths of P, which is denoted by dpt
m,τ, then,
dpt
m,τ = max
p′∈P′

p∈P
zp′,p,τ ·
⎛
⎝
fl∈p′

CLj∈p
dproc
m,l,j,τ
+
|p′|−1

l=1

ps⊆p
xm,l,φ(ps),τ · xm,l+1,ψ(ps),τ

e∈ps
ρm,τ · de
⎞
⎠,
(3)
where φ(ps) is the starting point of path ps, and ψ(ps) is the
ending point of ps.
When an active function fails, it needs to be switched to
a standby instance. The delay during such a process is the
recovering delay [43]. Let P′
l be the paths in DAG G′
m that
involves function fl. If fl is switched to its standby instance, all
the execution paths in P′
l will be affected. That is, given a path
p′ ∈P′
l, the predecessor of fl in p′ needs to forward its processed
data stream to the new cloudlet of fl’s standby instance. Besides,
sinceweconsiderstatefulserverlessfunctions,suchasprocessed
states, connection states, etc., it needs to forward the states
generated to the new destination for later use. We assume that
each serverless function maintain a state buffer for the states
generated by each function. Let κm be the size of the state buffer
for each function of data stream processing request rm. Denote
by pl,τ the switching path from time slot τ −1 to time slot τ.
The recovering delay drec
m,τ if a failed function is switched to a
standby instance in a different cloudlet at τ, we have
drec
m,τ =

fl∈V ′m
yl,τ · κm

e∈pl,τ
de,
(4)
where yl,τ indicates that whether fl is switched to a standby
instance in a new cloudlet in time slot τ. Therefore, the delay
experienced by a data stream processing request rm is
dm,τ = dpt
m,τ + drec
m,τ.
(5)
F. Problem Deﬁnitions and NP-Hardness
Given an SEC network G = (V, E), a set R of requests
for processing data streams, with each data stream processing
request rm represented by a DAG G′
m = (V ′
m, E′
m), assuming
that the available resources of the SEC network are enough
to admit each single data stream processing request rm, we
consider the following optimization problems.
On the arrival of each data stream processing request rm,
assuming that the data rate of rm is given as a priori, the fault
tolerant function placement problem with given data rates in
G is aim to ﬁnd the locations of the serverless functions in
V ′
m for rm, determine the number of standby instances, and
place the standby instances for each function of rm into the
cloudlets, such that the average delay experienced among all
data stream processing requests in R is minimized, subject to
the memory resource capacity on each cloudlet and the fault
tolerant requirement of rm.
Although the data rates of data stream processing requests
are known in their arrival time slots, the data rates in future time
slots are dynamically changing and uncertain. Given a ﬁnite
time slot with T, the proactive data stream processing request
adjustment problem in G is to predict the data rates of data
stream processing requests in different time scales, proactively
adjustingthenumbernm ofstandbyinstancesbyre-locating,and
assigning them to serverless functions with different memory
resources. As such, minimizing the average delay incurred by
all data stream processing requests in R while meeting the
memory resource capacity of each cloudlet and the fault tolerant
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
300
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
requirement of rm by proactively adjusting the number and
locations of standby instances.
We now analyze the NP-hardness of deﬁned problems.
Theorem 1: Given an SEC network G = (V, E), a request rm
needs to process by functions in a DAG G′
m = (V ′
m, E′
m), and
a fault tolerant requirement δm of rm, the fault tolerant function
placement problem is NP-hard.
Please see Appendix A, available in the supplemental ﬁle.
IV. AN EFFICIENT ALGORITHM FOR THE FAULT TOLERANT
FUNCTION PLACEMENT PROBLEM WITH GIVEN DATA RATES
We now propose an efﬁcient algorithm for the fault tolerant
function placement problem, assuming that the data rate of a
data stream processing request rm is given a priori.
A. An Optimization Framework to Find an Appropriate
Number of Standby Instances
Due to capacitated resources in cloudlets, the number nm
of standby instances has to be chosen carefully to ﬁnd a ﬁne
tradeoff between the fault tolerance and delay experienced by
each data stream processing request. Speciﬁcally, if a larger
value of nm, the standby instances may consume too much
memory resource, making the active instances being placed into
far locations in the SEC network and leading to long delays.
However, a smaller value of nm may lead to the violation of
fault tolerant requirement of the data stream processing request.
Motivated by this, we design an optimization framework with a
customized binary search method to ﬁnd a proper value of nm,
such that the fault tolerant requirement is met, and the delay is
minimized.
We set the minimum and maximum values of nm to 1 and K,
respectively, meaning that each function should have at least one
and at most K standby instances. Considering that in each time
slot τ, there are already some data stream processing requests
in the SEC network, we could keep track of their number of
standby instances and their experienced delays in time slot τ −
1. We thus associate each value of nm with the average delays
experienced by data stream processing requests which have nm
standby instances. Let < n, d > be such an associated tuple.
The binary search process proceeds as follows. Firstly, let
nmin and nmax be the minimum and maximum values of the
current search round, respectively, where nmin = 1 and nmax =
K. The value of nm is set to ⌊nmin + nmax−nmin
2
⌋. We then
check whether the fault tolerant requirement in inequality (1) is
met. If not, we set nmin to ⌊nmin + nmax−nmin
2
⌋and perform
the next round of searching; otherwise, we check the delay of n
in its corresponding tuple by two cases:
Case 1, if no data stream processing requests adopted this
value so far, its delay is NIL. We then implement data stream
processing request rm by invoking the function placement al-
gorithm in the next subsection. The obtained delay is updated
to the tuple, and the next round of searching is continued with
nmin = n;
Case 2, otherwise, we obtain the average delay directly from
the tuple. If the delay is smaller than the delay obtained in the
previous round, we set nmin = n and continue for the next round
of searching; besides, we set nmax = n and continue for the next
round. The above procedure continues until nmax ≤nmin and
nm is set to the current value of n. After obtaining a proper value
of nm for data stream processing request rm, we then proceed
Algorithm 1: Fwk.
Input: An SEC network G = (V, E), a set R of data
stream processing requests for processing data streams,
and their fault tolerant requirements.
Output: The placement locations for the active and
standby instances of functions of each rm.
1: Create a tuple ⟨n, d⟩for each rm and 1 ≤n ≤K, where
d ←NIL.
2: for τ ←1 · · · T do
3:
Let Rτ be the set of data stream processing requests
that arrive in time slot τ;
4:
for each data stream processing request rm ∈Rτ do
5:
nmin ←1; nmax ←K;
6:
nm ←−1; /*the number of standby instances for
data stream processing request rm*/
7:
while nmin ≤nmax do
8:
n′ ←⌊nmin + nmax−nmin
2
⌋;
9:
if the fault tolerant requirement is met then
10:
Get d from tuple ⟨nm, d⟩;
11:
if d is NIL then
12:
Invoke Algorithm Heu in the next subsection
to obtain a value for d;
13:
nmin ←nm and continue the next round of
searching;
14:
if d is smaller than that in the previous round
then
15:
nmin ←n′ and continue the next round of
searching;
16:
else
17:
nmax ←n′ and continue the next round of
searching;
18:
else
19:
nmin ←⌊nmin + nmax−nmin
2
⌋;
20:
nm ←n′;
21:
Invoke Algorithm Heu to place the functions of
request rm with given the selected number nm of
standby instances;
to place the functions of the data stream processing request rm
in the next subsection.
The proposed framework is shown in Algorithm 1, referred
to as Fwk.
B. Function Placement With a Given Number of Standby
Instances
Given a value nm for each function of the data stream pro-
cessing request rm, we now devise an efﬁcient heuristic to ﬁnd
locationsforitsserverlessfunctionsandstandbyinstances.Since
there is a recovering delay among active functions and standby
instances, they need to be located in close locations. Separately
placing a number of copies of DAG G′
m however may increase
the recovering delays. To avoid such high recovering delays, we
propose a method that jointly places each function in G′
m and
its nm standby instances into the SEC network G. The proposed
heuristic consists of three stages: (1) partitioning DAG G′
m into
a number of partitions, (2) placing the active functions of rm
into the SEC network, and (3) placing standby instances of rm.
Stage 1. DAG partitioning: To reduce the transmission delays,
weﬁrstpartitionDAGG′
m intoanumberofsequentialpartitions,
by applying topological sorting on the DAG G′
m of rm [44]. In
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
XU et al.: EFFICIENT AND FAULT TOLERANT DATA STREAM PROCESSING WITH UNCERTAIN DATA RATES IN SERVERLESS EDGE COMPUTING
301
Fig. 3.
An example of the constructed auxiliary graph G′′
m.
this case, we can avoid massive data stream transmissions among
different cloudlets when the functions are scattered in the SEC
network. We ﬁrst perform a depth-ﬁrst search on G′
m to obtain
the dependency among the functions in V ′
m. According to the
dependencies between functions, we can obtain a topological
sort of the functions. We then divide the G′
m into a set of parti-
tions based on the results of topological sorting, each partition
consisting of a set of functions that can be instantiated to the
same cloudlet. Assuming that the computing resources of each
server can handle at least one partition. Therefore, each partition
is a minimal schedule unit. Besides, all the partitions form a
sequence chain, which represents the execution sequences of the
functions in the partitions and referred to as partition sequence.
AnexampleofthefoundpartitionsequenceisshowninFig.3(b).
Let Sm be the partition sequence of data stream processing
request rm. Each partition pq ∈Sm has several functions, and
the partitions have disjoint sets of functions of DAG G′
m.
Stage2.Activefunctionplacement:Wethenplacethepartition
sequence Sm of each data stream processing request rm to the
SEC network G, where the functions of the placed partition
sequence will serve as active functions. To this end, we transfer
the problem into the problem of ﬁnding a shortest path in an
auxiliary graph G′′
m.
For each partition pq, we ﬁrst modify the SEC network G
by eliminating the cloudlets that do not have enough memory
resources to execute the functions in pq. Instead of removing
the cloudlets with insufﬁcient resources directly, we treat such
cloudlets as dummy cloudlets with zero processing delay. Let cl′
j
be a dummy cloudlet for cloudlet clj. The rationale behind this
is that it will not execute the functions in pq.
For the rest cloudlets with enough computing resources,
we create three virtual cloudlets, denoted by cl1
j,q, cl2
j,q, and
cl3
j,q. There is an edge from cl1
j,q to cl2
j,q and the delay of this
edge is set to d(⟨cl1
j,q, cl2
j,q⟩) = αj · Mj. There is also an edge
from cl1
j,q to cl3
j,q, and its delay is d(⟨cl1
j,q, cl3
j,q⟩) = αj · Mj +
maxfl∈pq do
l,j
ρm,τ
. In other words, edge d(⟨cl1
j,q, cl2
j,q⟩) means that ex-
ecuting functions in pq using existing serverless functions; while
d(⟨cl1
j,q, cl3
j,q⟩) means that using newly-instantiated serverless
functions to execute the functions. In addition, if there is an
edge from clj to clj′ in G, there are two edges ⟨cl2
j,q, cl1
j′,q⟩and
⟨cl3
j,q, cl1
j′,q⟩in the auxiliary graph. Besides, the transmission
delays of such edges are the same as link ⟨clj, clj′⟩in the SEC
network G. Besides, there is a bi-directional edge between the
ﬁrst virtual cloudlets of different cloudlets in the layer, i.e.,
⟨cl1
j,q, cl1
j′,q⟩and⟨cl1
j′,q, cl1
j,q⟩.Thedelaysofsuchedgesaresetto
the transmission delay between clj and clj′ in the SEC network.
We then add the nodes and edges of the modiﬁed network into
the auxiliary graph G′′
m. Each of such modiﬁed networks within
G′′
m is referred to as one of its layers. In total, we will have Sm
layers in G′′
m.
We proceed by connecting different layers of the auxiliary
graph. The overall principle is that there is a directed edge from a
virtual cloudlets cl2
j,q andcl3
j,q inpartitionpq toits corresponding
cloudlet cl1
j,q+1 of partition pq+1. The transmission delay of
such an edge is set to zero. We then add a common source
node and sink node to the built auxiliary graph. There is a
directed edge from the common source node to each virtual
cloudlet cl1
j,1 of the ﬁrst layer, and the delay of this edge is set to
the minimum delay from the source function sm to cloudlet
clj in the SEC network G. Similarly, there is an edge from
each virtual cloudlet cl2
j,|Sm| or cl3
j,|Sm| of the last layer to the
common sink node, and the delay of this edge is set to the
minimum delay from the cloudlet to the sink function tm of data
stream processing request rm in G. We then ﬁnd the shortest
path from the source node to the sink node of the auxiliary
graph G′′
m. The cloudlets in the found shortest path execute
the partitions in Sm. Fig. 3 shows an example of the auxiliary
graph.
Stage 3. Standby instance placement: Given the placed active
functions of G′
m, we now place nm standby instances for each
active function. To this end, we modify the auxiliary graph
G′′
m and place the standby instances. Suppose the partition pq
is placed into cloudlet clj and its consecutive partition pq+1
is located in cloudlet clj′. Clearly, the nm standby instances
partition of pq should be close to both clj and clj′. First, the
virtual cloudlets whose cloudlet does not have enough com-
puting resources to host a standby instance partition of pq will
be converted to a dummy cloudlet. Second, we re-connect the
common source node in G′′
m with the virtual cloudlet cl1
j′′,1
of the rest cloudlets with enough computing resources for an
instance of each function in pq except clj. The delay of the
edge is set to the delay of transmitting the state buffer of
rm from clj to clj′′. Also, virtual cloudlets cl2
j′′,1 and cl3
j′′,1
are connected to the virtual cloudlet cl1
j′,1 of clj′, and their
delays are set to the delays of transmitting the state buffer from
clj′′ to clj′. Third, cl1
j′,1 is connected to the common virtual
sink, and its delay is set to zero. After modifying the auxiliary
graph G′′
m, we then ﬁnd the shortest path from the common
source to the common sink of G′′
m, delete the nodes in the
path, and repeat until we ﬁnd nm disjoint shortest paths. The
cloudlet in each of the path hosts a standby instance for each
function in partition pq. The detailed steps are described in
Algorithm Heu.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
302
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
Algorithm 2: Heu.
Input: An SEC network G = (V, E), a data stream
processing request rm with a number nm of standby
instances of its functions within its DAG G′
m.
Output: The placement locations for the active and
standby instances of functions of request rm.
1: /* Stage 1: DAG participating*/
2: Perform a topological sort on the DAG G′
m of rm;
3: Let Sm be the partition sequence of rm;
4: /* Stage 2: Active function placement*/
5: Given partitions in Sm, construct auxiliary graph G′′
m for
rm;
6: Find a shortest path in auxiliary graph G′′
m;
7: The q + 1 node of the shortest path is the location for
functions in pq;
8: /* Stage 3: Standby instances placement*/
9: Modify the auxiliary graph by converting virtual
cloudlets into dummy cloudlets if they do not have
enough resources to host standby instances for functions
in pq;
10: Let clj be the location hosting the active instance of pq
in stage 2;
11: Reconnect the common source node to cl1
j′′,1 and set its
delay to the delay from clj to clj′′;
12: Reconnect cl2
j′′,1 and cl3
j′′,1 to cl1
j′,1 similarly;
13: Find a disjoint shortest path from the common source
node to the common sink of G′′
m, and place the standby
instance in each cloudlet of the disjoint path for each
function in pq;
C. Algorithm Analysis
We now analyze the correctness and performance of the
proposed algorithm.
Lemma 1: Algorithm Heu delivers a feasible solution to the
fault tolerant function placement problem with a given value of
nm of a data stream processing request rm, which violates the
memory resource constraint by a factor of O(|V ′
m|).
Please see Appendix B, available in the supplemental ﬁle.
Theorem 2: Given an SEC network G = (V, E), and a data
stream processing request rm needs to process its data streams
by functions in a DAG G′
m = (V ′
m, E′
m), and a fault tolerant
requirement δm of each request rm, the algorithm Fwk delivers
a feasible solution to the fault tolerant function placement prob-
lem in time O(|R|log |V |(|V ′
m||V | log(|V ′
m||V |) + |V ′
m|(|E| +
|V |))).
Please see Appendix C, available in the supplemental ﬁle.
V. ONLINE ALGORITHMS FOR PROACTIVE DATA STREAM
PROCESSING REQUEST ADJUSTMENT PROBLEM
A. Overview
The data rate of a data stream processing request is un-
certain in future time slots. To handle such changes, we will
require more memory resources for the active functions of rm
when its data rate increases dramatically; otherwise, we need
to release idle resources timely to avoid resource wastage. We
observe that standby instances of the functions can be released
or re-instantiated if they are not in use. This will not affect the
timeliness of data stream processing if no fault happens. Based
Fig. 4.
An example of the MT-LSTM.
on this observation, we dynamically adjust the number nm of
standby instances by re-locating them to functions with different
memory resources.
B. Online Learning Algorithm
As standby instances are already placed into the SEC network,
they are not expected to be re-located too much. Otherwise, the
recovering delay may be high if faults happen. We deﬁne an
adjustment ratio as the portion of the nm standby instances to
be re-located. Let ξm be the adjustment ratio for rm. If the data
rate of data stream processing requests increases dramatically,
a large value of ξm is needed, since we rely more on standby
instances to absorb the changes of uncertain data rates. As such,
the value of ξm is highly correlated with the data rate of data
stream processing requests. The algorithm has two stages: (1)
predicting the data rate of each request and the value of ξm
of each request, (2) re-locating the standby instances of each
request and switching between the active function and standby
instance.
Stage 1. Data rate and adjustment ratio predictions: We
observe that the data rate ρm,τ of data stream processing request
rm in time slot τ depends on the most recent events or some
events that happened in different time scales. For example,
the environment where the data streams of rm originate may
experience an unexpected event, leading to a surge of the data
stream in a short time. Considering that such events may happen
on different time scales, the prediction method should predict
across different time scales. The multi-timescale long short-term
memory neural network (MT-LSTM) is proposed to learn time
series with patterns spanning different time scales [45]. An
MT-LSTM learns when to forget the historical information of
the memory unit, and when to update the memory unit with new
information. Fig 4 shows an example of the MT-LSTM.
For each data stream processing request rm, to learn its
data rates across different time scales based on MT-LSTM, it
partitions the gates, memory cells, and hidden states into gm
groups with each group being activated at a given length of time
scale[45].Lethg bethesizeofhiddenstatesforeachgroup.Each
data stream processing request rm may have multiple lengths of
time scales, within each its data rates change. We then determine
the number gm of groups needed for the MT-LSTM of data
stream processing request rm, where each group corresponds to
the length of a time scale. The groups can further be categorized
from the slowest to the fastest ones. The slowest group corre-
sponds to the longest time scale. However, the MT-LSTM is
designed for natural language processing applications, which
may not be apply to the prediction of the data rate of each
data stream processing request. To make the MT-LSTM suitable
for the scenario of data stream processing, we determine the
number gm of time scales for each MT-LSTM of request rm.
Speciﬁcally, we observe that a longer time scale usually leads
to larger changes in the data rate. Therefore, we use the average
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
XU et al.: EFFICIENT AND FAULT TOLERANT DATA STREAM PROCESSING WITH UNCERTAIN DATA RATES IN SERVERLESS EDGE COMPUTING
303
Algorithm 3: Adj.
Input: An SEC network G = (V, E), a set R of data
stream processing requests, the fault tolerant requirement
δm of each request rm, and the number of standby
instances of its functions.
Output: Re-locate a part of standby instances of functions
in the DAG of each data stream processing request in R.
1: /*Stage 1: Data rate and adjustment ratio predictions
for each rm ∈R*/
2: for τ ←1 · · · T do
3:
for each data stream processing request rm ∈R do
4:
Calculate the average data rate of last ζm time slots
to obtain ˜ρm.
5:
gm ←⌈log2 ˜ρm⌉−1;
6:
Train the MT-LSTM to obtain the predicted rate
value ˆρm,τ+1 for the next time slot.
7:
ξm ←
ˆρm,τ+1
ρm,τ +ˆρm,τ+1 ; nm ←⌈nm · ξm⌉;
8:
/*Stage 2: Re-locate the standby instances and
switching*/
9:
Invoke stage 3 of Algorithm Heu to re-locate the
standby instances given the adjusted number nm of
standby instances.
data rate per time slot so far to estimate the number of groups
needed. Let ˜ρm be the average data rate of rm so far. According
to [45], the maximum number of groups for the prediction of
data rate of rm then is
gmax
i
= ⌈log2 ˜ρm⌉−1.
(6)
This means that the fastest group in the MT-LSTM of data stream
processing request rm has the most frequent changes in data
rates, and the slowest group has a stable data rate.
We then train the MT-LSTM to predict the data rate of each
request in the next time slot. Speciﬁcally, each input of the MT-
LSTM of request rm includes the data rates of its last ζm time
slots. Let ˆρm,τ+1 be the predicted data rate of rm in the next
time slot τ + 1. We then determine the adjustment ratio ξm of
request rm by
ξm = ˆρm,τ+1/(ρm,τ + ˆρm,τ+1).
(7)
The rationale behind is that the more changes of the data rate
more standby instances need to be re-located or re-assigned.
Stage 2. Relocating standby instance and switching: Having
obtained the values of ˆρm,τ+1 and ξm, we re-locate the standby
instances and switch from active instances to standby instances
of the functions of rm by invoking the third stage of Algo-
rithm Heu with the data rate of ˆρm,τ+1, by selecting a number
of ⌈nm · ξm⌉standby instances of each function for re-location.
The detailed algorithm is given in Algorithm 3, which is referred
to as Adj.
C. Algorithm Analysis
We now analyze the performance and correctness of the
proposed algorithm in the following theorem.
Theorem 3: Given an SEC network G = (V, E), a set R of
data stream processing requests, each request rm ∈R needs to
process its data stream by functions in a DAG G′
m = (V ′
m, E′
m),
andafaulttolerantrequirementδm ofeachrequestrm, algorithm
Adj delivers a feasible solution to the proactive adjustment
problem.
Please see Appendix D, available in the supplemental ﬁle.
Theorem 4: The time complexity of the proposed al-
gorithm Adj is O(T|R|(
gmax
i
|ρm,τ |
gm h2
g+log |V |(|V ′
m| |V |
log(|V ′
m||V |)+|V ′
m|(|E| + |V |)))).
Please see Appendix E, available in the supplemental ﬁle.
Theorem 5: The performance bound of the delay for our
proposed algorithm Adj in current time slot τ is dadj
τ
≤
αmax
j
M max
j,τ
αmin
j
M min
j,τ dopt
τ
+ 
p∈padj
τ
dmax
e,τ
(
ps∈p

e∈ps ρm,τ +

fl∈p

e∈pl,τ κ), where M max
j,τ
and M min
j,τ
are maximum
and minimum of amount memory allocated by cloudlet CLj to
process a unit of data rate at t, and dmax
e,τ
represents the maximum
of transmission delay of all paths at t. Also, the fault tolerance
gap between our proposed algorithm Adj and the optimal
solution at time slot τ is Pradj ≤1 −(1 −Propt)(pl)ˆϵ·nm,
where Pradj and Propt are the probability of fault tolerance at
τ obtained by Adj and optimal solution, respectively.
Please see Appendix F, available in the supplemental ﬁle.
VI. EXPERIMENTS
In this section, we evaluate the performance of the proposed
algorithms against their counterparts based on real datasets.
A. Experimental Settings and Test-Bed Implements
Parameter settings: We consider an SEC network consisting
of 50 to 200 cloudlets. The memory capacity of each cloudlet
varies from 128 GB to 512 GB [46]. The data rate of each data
stream processing request varies from [0.01, 100] MB/s [47].
Based on analyzing the performance metrics of 1,250 virtual
machines in Bitbrains’ distributed data center [48], we set the
amount of memory required for each cloudlet to process a unit
data rate to 85 MB, and the impact of each cloudlet memory
allocation on processing delay is set within [0.05, 0.09] [41].
Referring to the real serverless computing platform [49], we
adjust the memory allocated to the function to [128, 10240]
MB, with an increment of 128 MB. The transmission delay
for transmitting a unit volume of data along link e is set to
[0.1, 0.5] ms [50]. The probabilities of failure for each function
instance are in the range of [0.001, 0.003] [51]. The fault tolerant
requirement is set at 99.1% to 99.9% [38]. The maximum
number of standby instances is set to 3. The results in each ﬁgure
are based on the average of 10 runs of the proposed algorithms
and their benchmarks.
Test-bed: We built a test-bed of the SEC network with both
real hardware devices and a real serverless platform, as shown
in Fig. 5. The hardware includes a server equipped with an
i9-13900HX CPU, 64 G RAM, a PC equipped with an i7-13700
CPU and 32 G RAM, and an Nvidia Jetson nano. The server is
used to implement the experimental platform, the PC is used to
verify the algorithm Fwk, Adj and their benchmarks, and the
Jetson is used to simulate edge devices and run the MT-LSTM
algorithm. We divide the server into four virtual machines with
equal computing resources, where consisting of a master node
and three worker nodes. All virtual machines use the Ubuntu
24.04 operating system and deploy Kubernetes v1.311 with
1https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
304
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 5.
A test-bed of a serverless platform in an SEC network.
containerd v1.7,2 consisting of one master node and three worker
nodes. The set of pods is activated as cloudlets in the Kubernetes
cluster. We use Flannel to build an overlay network of the
test-bed, and use K8s-netsim to simulate pod-pod connectivity.
We further deployed OpenFaaS [52] as a serverless platform
for the test-bed on the master node. We use the functions
that measure the impact of load size on processing time when
triggering serverless functions in [53] as functions in each data
stream processing request. We ﬁnally implemented MT-LSTM
on Jetson Nano with sci-kit learn [54]. All the experiments are
developed by Python 3.9 with multiple libraries, such as request,
kuberneter, and dragonk8s, etc.
Dataset:Wenowintroducethedatasetusedinourexperiment.
Data stream processing requests are obtained from the DAG of
batch workloads of Alibaba’s cluster-trace-v2018 [55], which is
widely adopted in the study of serverless function scheduling.
We construct DAGs for the data stream processing requests
using the dependencies of each task node in the dataset as
dependencies among functions. Besides, according to (2), data
rate and memory usage show a positive correlation. Therefore,
we use the percentage of memory usage in this dataset as the
percentage of the data rate. We then obtain the actual data rate
value within its range [0.01, 100] MB/s according to the ratio.
We also use Huawei Public Cloud Trace 2025 as the value of cold
start delay [42]. The cold start delay do
l,j is randomly selected
by the value of Region 1 cold starts in this dataset.
Benchmarks: We compare the proposed algorithms with the
following four benchmarks:
r FixDoc: A function placement and DAG scheduling algo-
rithm for serverless applications [14]. It takes into account
the dependence of the serverless functions and leverages a
dynamic programming-based approach to efﬁciently place
functions, ultimately reducing the processing and trans-
mission delays of the data stream processing requests.
r Lambda+: A AWS Lambda’s scheduling strategy to im-
prove resource utilization [49], which designs a greedy-
based method to place the functions of the same DAG onto
thesamecloudletuntilitscapacityisreached.Weexpanded
this work by adding an active-standby mechanism.
r HEFT:
A
heterogeneous-earliest-ﬁnish-time
algo-
rithm [56]. HEFT ﬁrst ranks the sequential partitions
for a DAG based on the processing and transmission
delays of each function and then places the functions
2https://github.com/containerd/containerd
Fig. 6.
The impact of the different number of cloudlets on the performance of
algorithms Fwk, Lambda+, FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL.
Fig. 7.
The impact of different number of requests on the performance of
algorithms Fwk, Lambda+, FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL.
into the cloudlet according to their ranks to minimize the
processing and transmission delays.
r DRL: A deep reinforcement learning-based function place-
ment method [13], where the negative of the delay for each
request is set as a reward, and functions are placed into
cloudlets to minimize the delay.
B. Performance Evaluation
Impact of the number of cloudlets: We ﬁrst evaluate the
performance of algorithms in terms of the average delay, average
fault tolerance, and average running time in Fig. 6, by varying
the number of cloudlets from 50 to 200 while ﬁxing the number
of requests at 200. From Fig. 6(a), we can see that the average
delay of Fwk is 21.9%, 3.5%, 15.7%, and 12.9% lower than
those of Lambda+, FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL respectively,
when the network size is 200. The rationale behind this is that
Fwk ﬁnds the locations for functions by constructing auxiliary
graphs, minimizing transmission delays between functions as
much as possible. Further, we can see that the average delay
obtained by the algorithms is decreasing with the growth of
the number of cloudlets. The reason is that as the number of
cloudlets grows, the functions can be placed in locations with
lower processing delays with high probability. In Fig. 6(b), we
canseethatFwkandLambda+havemuchhigherfaulttolerance
than their counterparts. Furthermore, Fwk can achieve better
fault tolerance compared with Lambda+, FixDoc, HEFT, and
DRL, due to the binary search mechanism, Fwk carefully ﬁnds
the trade-off between the fault tolerance and the average delay.
In Fig. 6(c), we can see that the average running times of Fwk,
FixDoc, and HEFT increase with the growth of the number
of cloudlets, and Fwk achieves the highest average running
time. The reason is that the time to ﬁnd the shortest path of
the auxiliary graph becomes longer as the nodes of the auxiliary
graph increases exponentially with the growth of the number of
cloudlets.
Impact of the number of requests: We then investigated the
impact of the number of requests on the performance of al-
gorithms in Fig. 7, by varying the number of requests from
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
XU et al.: EFFICIENT AND FAULT TOLERANT DATA STREAM PROCESSING WITH UNCERTAIN DATA RATES IN SERVERLESS EDGE COMPUTING
305
Fig. 8.
The impact of different maximum transmission delay on the perfor-
mance of algorithms Fwk, Lambda+, FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL.
50 to 200 while ﬁxing the number of cloudlets at 100. From
Fig. 7(a), we can see that the average delay of all algorithms
keeps increasing as the number of requests grows. The reason
is that more functions need to be placed when the number of
requests increases, which results in higher average delays due to
the lack of resources. Speciﬁcally, the average delay of Fwk is
19.6%, 3.1%, 14.1%, and 11.3% lower than those of Lambda+,
FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL, respectively, when the number of
requests is 200. From Fig. 7(b), we can see that the average
fault tolerance of Fwk and Lambda+ has remained stable, and
other algorithms continue to decrease as the number of requests
grows. In particular, the average fault tolerance of Fwk is 27.1%
higher than its counterparts when the number of requests is
200. The reason is that Fwk carefully selects the right number
and locations for standby instances of a data stream processing
request to ensure its fault tolerant requirements. The average
running times of algorithms are shown in Fig. 7(c), from which
the runtime of Fwk increases slightly as the number of requests
increases compared with its counterparts.
Impact of different maximum transmission delay: We further
evaluate the performance of algorithms in Fig. 8 by varying
the maximum transmission delay for transmitting a unit volume
of data along each link from 0.2 to 0.5 ms, while ﬁxing the
number of cloudlets at 100 and the number of requests at 200.
We ﬁrst can see that the average delay increases with the growth
of the maximum transmission delay of a unit of data in Fig. 8(a),
due to the increased transmission delay. Speciﬁcally, Fwk de-
livers the lowest average transmission delay, where outperforms
Lambda+, FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL 19.2%, 1.2%, 14.2% and
11.1%, respectively, when the maximum transmission delay is
0.5. The reason is that Fwk considers placing DAG partitioning
as close as possible to adjacent cloudlets, which reduces the
effect of the maximum transmission delay on the average delay.
Further, we can see from the Fig. 8(b) and (c) that all the algo-
rithms show a steady trend in terms of average fault tolerance and
average running time, since the maximum transmission delay
between two cloudlets has little effect on the fault tolerance of
the requests and the average running time of the algorithms.
Impact of different maximum memory capacity: We then in-
vestigated the impact of the maximum memory capacity of each
cloudlet on the performance of algorithms in Fig. 9 by varying
the maximum memory capacity of each cloudlet from 256 to
512 GB, while ﬁxing the network size at 100 and the number
of requests at 200. From Fig. 9(a), we can see that the average
delay obtained by all algorithms decrease with the growth of
the maximum memory capacity of cloudlets, where the average
delay of Fwk is 16.2%, 0.9%, 5.6%, and 7.9% lower than those
of Lambda+, FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL, respectively, when the
max memory capacity is 512. The reason is that with the growth
of the memory capacity of each cloudlet, the functions in each
request can be placed into cloudlets with lower processing and
Fig.9.
Theimpactofdifferentmaximummemorycapacityontheperformance
of algorithms Fwk, Lambda+, FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL.
Fig. 10.
The impact of different number of functions on the performance of
algorithms Fwk, Lambda+, FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL.
Fig. 11.
The impact of different data rates on the performance of algorithms
Fwk, Lambda+, FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL.
transmissiondelays.InFig.9(b),wecanseethattheaveragefault
tolerance of cloudlets remains stable, because the maximum
memory capacity does not impact the fault tolerance of each
cloudlet directly. In Fig. 9(c), we can see that the memory
capacity has essentially no effect on the running time of the
algorithms. The reason is that the average running time is related
to the number of requests, cloudlets, and functions, instead of
memory capacity, as shown in Theorem 2.
Impact of the number of functions: We now investigated
the impact of the number of functions of each request on the
performance of algorithms in Fig. 10, by varying the number of
functions of each request from 10 to 50 while ﬁxing the number
of cloudlets at 100 and the number of requests at 200. From
Fig. 10(a) and (c), we can see that the average delays and average
running times increase when the number of functions grows
from 10 to 50. Speciﬁcally, Fwk achieves the lowest average
delay when the number of functions is 50. The rationale behind
this is that as the number of functions of each request increases,
the memory resource in a cloudlet becomes more strained, po-
tentially leading to more dispersed function placement for each
request. We can also see from Fig. 10(b) that the fault tolerance
of FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL has decreased signiﬁcantly, while
that of Fwk remains stable. The reason is that the active-standby
failover mechanism ensures the fault tolerant requirement for
each request.
Impact of different data rates: We also evaluate the impact of
different data rates of requests on the performance of algorithms
in Fig. 11, by varying the maximum data rate of a request from
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
306
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 12.
The impact of different fault probabilities on the performance of
algorithms Fwk, Lambda+, FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL.
Fig. 13.
The performance of MT-LSTM with different sizes of hidden states
deployed on Jetson Nano and scikit-learn.
10 Mb/s to 100 Mb/s while ﬁxing the network size at 100 and
the number of requests at 200. From Fig. 11(a), we can see
that the average delays of algorithms Fwk and its counterparts
increase with the growth of the maximum data rate, because
transmitting more data leads to higher delay. Speciﬁcally, we
can observed that our proposed algorithm Fwk outperforms
Lambda+, FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL 17.4%, 2.3%, 16.1%, and
7.9%, receptively, when maximum data rate is 100 MB/s. The
average fault tolerance of requests and average running time by
the algorithms are shown in Fig. 11(b) and (c). We can see that
Fwk achieves the highest average fault tolerance when the max
data rate is 100. Besides, we can see that the running time of
Fwk is stable. The reasons are similar to the analysis in Fig. 9.
Impact of different fault probabilities: We then study the
impact of the different fault probabilities of each request on
the performance of algorithms in Fig. 12, by varying the fault
probabilities of each function from 0.1% to 0.3% while ﬁxing the
number of cloudlets at 100 and the number of requests at 200.
It can be observed from Fig. 12(a) that the average delays of
all algorithms keep increasing as the fault probability grows.
This is because more faults lead to higher recovery delays.
Meanwhile, we can also see that the growth trends of Fwk
and Lambda+ are signiﬁcantly slower than those of HEFT,
FixDoc, and DRL. This is because Fwk and Lambda+ adopt an
active-standby failover mechanism, resulting in lower recovery
delay. In Fig. 12(b) and (c), we can see that the average fault
tolerance and running time of algorithms remain stable. The
rationale behind this is similar to the reason in Fig. 11, we do
not repeat it here for the sake of space.
The performance of MT-LSTM: We now evaluate the perfor-
manceofMT-LSTMwithdifferentsizesofhiddenstatesinterms
of the MSE loss, accuracy, average inference time, and average
memory usage in Fig. 13, by varying the size of hidden states
from 8 to 128. Notice that the experiments on the performance
Fig. 14.
The impact of the uncertain data rate on the performance of algorithms
Adj, Lambda+, FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL.
of MT-LSTM were implemented using scikit-learn and run on
Jetson nano. From Fig. 13(a), we can see that as the number of
training epochs increases, the MSE loss decreases signiﬁcantly.
Meanwhile, the larger the size of hidden states, the greater the
decrease in MSE loss. Besides, due to the difference in MSE
loss, we can see from Fig. 13(b) that the loss is converging,
and the higher the accuracy of the models. The reason is that
the size of the hidden states means that the more extensive the
hidden state information of the model, resulting in the better
the performance. Fig. 13(c) and (d) show the inference time and
memory usage of the models with different hidden sizes. We can
see that as the size of hidden states increases, inference time and
memory usage increase signiﬁcantly. The reason is that the time
complexity of MT-LSTM is related to the size of hidden states,
and the theoretical analysis is shown in Theorem 4.
Impact of the uncertain data rate: We ﬁnally investigate the
performance of the algorithm within a ﬁnite time horizon with
250 time slots in Fig. 14 with the network size ﬁxed at 50, the
number of requests sets at 100, and the data rate sets according
to the data rate in MT-LSTM with different sizes of hidden state
and actual data rate in the dataset [55]. Fig. 14(a) and (b) show
that the average delay and memory usage for process data rates
of algorithm Adj. We can see that the average delay and memory
usagedeviatesigniﬁcantlyfromtheactualdataratewhenthesize
of hidden states is 8. Therefore, we typically select MT-LSTM
models with a hidden state size of 32 or 128 in practice. Besides,
we evaluated the performance of algorithms Adj, Lambda+,
FixDoc, HEFT, and DRL when the size of hidden states is set
as 32. It can be seen from Fig. 14(c) that the trend of average
delay is similar to the trend of data rate, and algorithm Adj
achieves the best results. The reason is that Adj can predict the
data rate accurately and re-place the standby instances in a more
appropriate location.
VII. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we studied the problems of efﬁcient and fault
tolerant data stream processing with uncertain data rates in an
SEC network. We ﬁrst proposed an optimization framework
for the problem via a customized binary search process and
an auxiliary graph construction method. If the data rates of
data stream processing requests are dynamically changing and
uncertain, we studied the proactive adjustment problem. We then
designed a novel online learning algorithm to predict the data
rates based on MT-LSTM and dynamically adjust the number
and locations of standby instances to absorb uncertain data
rates. We also conducted experiments based on a real test-bed
with real world datasets. Experimental results showed that the
performance of each data stream processing request outperforms
its counterparts by 13.5% on the average delay and 26.3% on
the average fault tolerance.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
XU et al.: EFFICIENT AND FAULT TOLERANT DATA STREAM PROCESSING WITH UNCERTAIN DATA RATES IN SERVERLESS EDGE COMPUTING
307
REFERENCES
[1] B. B. Sinha and R. Dhanalakshmi, “Recent advancements and challenges
of Internet of Things in smart agriculture: A survey,” Future Gener.
Comput. Syst., vol. 126, pp. 169–184, 2022.
[2] Y. Yang, K. Peng, S. Wang, X. Xu, P. Xiao, and V. C. Leung, “Fairness-
aware incentive mechanism for multi-server federated learning in edge-
enabled wireless networks with differential privacy,” IEEE Trans. Mobile
Comput., vol. 24, no. 10, pp. 9919–9933, Oct. 2025.
[3] K. Peng, B. Zhao, M. Bilal, and X. Xu, “Reliability-aware computation
ofﬂoading for delay-sensitive applications in MEC-enabled aerial com-
puting,” IEEE Trans. Green Commun. Netw., vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 1511–1519,
Sep. 2022.
[4] Z. Gao, C. Cecati, and S. X. Ding, “A survey of fault diagnosis and fault-
tolerant techniques—Part I: Fault diagnosis with model-based and signal-
based approaches,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 62, no. 6, pp. 3757–
3767, Jun. 2015.
[5] Y. Li, Y. Lin, Y. Wang, K. Ye, and C. Xu, “Serverless computing: State-of-
the-art, challenges and opportunities,” IEEE Trans. Serv. Comput., vol. 16,
no. 2, pp. 1522–1539, Mar./Apr. 2023.
[6] F. Tütüncüo˘glu, S. Jošilo, and G. Dán, “Online learning for rate-adaptive
task ofﬂoading under latency constraints in serverless edge computing,”
IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw., vol. 31, no. 2, pp. 695–709, Apr. 2023.
[7] H. Zhang, A. Cardoza, P. B. Chen, S. Angel, and V. Liu, “Fault-tolerant
and transactional stateful serverless workﬂows,” in Proc. OSDI ’20, 2020,
pp. 1187–1204.
[8] P. Liu, D. D. Silva, and L. Hu, “DART: A scalable and adaptive edge stream
processing engine,” in Proc. USENIX ATC ’21, 2021, pp. 239–252.
[9] H. Dui, S. Zhang, M. Liu, X. Dong, and G. Bai, “IoT-enabled real-time
trafﬁc monitoring and control management for intelligent transportation
systems,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 11, no. 9, pp. 15842–15854,
May 2024.
[10] J. Wen, Z. Chen, X. Jin, and X. Liu, “Rise of the planet of serverless
computing: A systematic review,” ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol.,
vol. 32, no. 5, pp. 1–61, 2023.
[11] P. Vahidinia, B. Farahani, and F. S. Aliee, “Mitigating cold start problem in
serverless computing: A reinforcement learning approach,” IEEE Internet
Things J., vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 3917–3927, Mar. 2023.
[12] J. Xu, B. Palanisamy, Q. Wang, H. Ludwig, and S. Gopisetty, “Amnis:
Optimized stream processing for edge computing,” J. Parallel Distrib.
Comput., vol. 160, pp. 49–64, 2022.
[13] Y. Yang et al., “Multi-objective deep reinforcement learning for function
ofﬂoading in serverless edge computing,” IEEE Trans. Serv. Comput.,
vol. 18, no. 1, pp. 288–301, Jan./Feb. 2025.
[14] L. Liu et al., “Dependent task placement and scheduling with function con-
ﬁguration in edge computing,” in Proc. ACM IWQoS ’19, 2019, pp. 1–10.
[15] S. Deng et al., “Dependent function embedding for distributed serverless
edge computing,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 33, no. 10,
pp. 2346–2357, Oct. 2022.
[16] Z. Cai, Z. Chen, X. Chen, R. Ma, H. Guan, and R. Buyya, “SPSC: Stream
processing framework atop serverless computing for industrial Big Data,”
IEEE Trans. Cybern., vol. 54, no. 11, pp. 6509–6517, Nov. 2024.
[17] W. W. Song, T. Um, S. Elnikety, M. Jeon, and B.-G. Chun, “Sponge:
Fast reactive scaling for stream processing with serverless frameworks,”
in Proc. USENIX ATC ’23, 2023, pp. 301–314.
[18] S. R. Poojara, C. K. Dehury, P. Jakovits, and S.N. Srirama, “Serverless
data pipeline approaches for iot data in fog and cloud computing,” Future
Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 130, pp. 91–105, 2022.
[19] G. Amarasinghe, M. D. D. Assunção, A. Harwood, and S. Karunasekera,
“A data stream processing optimisation framework for edge computing
applications,” in Proc. IEEE 21st Int. Symp. Real-Time Distrib. Comput.,
2018, pp. 91–98.
[20] B. Ramprasad et al., “Shepherd: Seamless stream processing on the edge,”
in Proc. IEEE/ACM SEC ’ 22, 2022, pp. 40–53.
[21] X. Fu, T. Ghaffar, J. C. Davis, and D. Lee, “EdgeWise: A better stream pro-
cessingenginefortheedge,”inProc.USENIXATC’19,2019,pp.929–946.
[22] R. B. Roy, T. Patel, and D. Tiwari, “Icebreaker: Warming serverless
functions better with heterogeneity,” in Proc. ACM ASPLOS ’22, 2022,
pp. 753–767.
[23] B. Wang, A. Ali-Eldin, and P. Shenoy, “Lass: Running latency sensitive
serverless computations at the edge,” in Proc. ACM HPDC ’21, 2021,
pp. 239–251.
[24] S. Khare et al., “Linearize, predict and place: Minimizing the makespan
for edge-based stream processing of directed acyclic graphs,” in Proc.
IEEE/ACM SEC ’ 19, 2019, pp. 1–14.
[25] A. Sari and M. Akkaya, “Fault tolerance mechanisms in distributed
systems,” Int. J. Communications, Netw. System Sci., vol. 8, no. 12,
pp. 471–482, 2015.
[26] V. Sreekanti, C. Wu, S. Chhatrapati, J. E. Gonzalez, J. M. Hellerstein, and
J. M. Faleiro, “A fault-tolerance shim for serverless computing,” in Proc.
ACM EuroSys ’20, 2020.
[27] S. Qi, X. Liu, and X. Jin, “Halfmoon: Log-optimal fault-tolerant stateful
serverless computing,” in Proc. 29th Symp. Operating Syst. Princ., 2023,
pp. 314–330.
[28] A. Barrak, M. Jaziri, R. Trabelsi, F. Jaafar, and F. Petrillo, “Spirt: A
fault-tolerant and reliable peer-to-peer serverless ml training architecture,”
in Proc. IEEE 23rd Int. Conf. Softw. Quality, Reliability, Secur., 2023,
pp. 650–661.
[29] T. Yu et al., “Characterizing serverless platforms with serverlessbench,”
in Proc. 11th ACM Symp. Cloud Comput., 2020, pp. 30–44.
[30] L. Wang, M. Li, Y. Zhang, T. Ristenpart, and M. Swift, “Peeking behind
the curtains of serverless platforms,” in Proc. USENIX ATC ’18, 2018,
pp. 133–146.
[31] J. Yuan, M. A. Abdel-Aty, L. Yue, and Q. Cai, “Modeling real-time
cycle-level crash risk at signalized intersections based on high-resolution
event-based data,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 22, no. 11,
pp. 6700–6715, Nov. 2021.
[32] R. Viola, A. Martı´n, M. Zorrilla, J. Montalbán, P. Angueira, and G.-M.
Muntean, “A survey on virtual network functions for media streaming:
Solutions and future challenges,” ACM Comput. Surv., vol. 55, no. 11,
pp. 1–37, 2023.
[33] M. Xu et al., “A full dive into realizing the edge-enabled metaverse:
Visions, enabling technologies, and challenges,” IEEE Commun. Surveys
Tuts., vol. 25, no. 1, pp. 656–700, Firstquarter 2023.
[34] “Apache kafka,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/apache/
kafka
[35] “Apacheﬂink,”2024.[Online].Available:https://github.com/apache/ﬂink
[36] B. Zhao, K. Peng, K. Zhang, H. Sun, Z. Tu, and D. Chu, “Serﬂow: A multi-
stage service-enhanced mechanism for workﬂow applications in cpss with
end-edge-cloud collaboration,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 12, no. 16,
pp. 33792–33813, Aug. 2025.
[37] Z. Xu et al., “Learning-driven algorithms for responsive AR ofﬂoading
with non-deterministic rewards in metaverse-enabled MEC,” IEEE/ACM
Trans. Netw., vol. 32, no. 2, pp. 1556–1572, Apr. 2024.
[38] “Aws lambda sla,” 2022. [Online]. Available: https://aws.amazon.com/cn/
lambda/sla/
[39] Y. Bouizem, N. Parlavantzas, D. Dib, and C. Morin, “Active-standby for
high-availability in faas,” in Proc. 6th Int. Workshop Serverless Comput.,
2020, pp. 31–36.
[40] R. Cordingly, W. Shu, and W. J. Lloyd, “Predicting performance and
cost of serverless computing functions with saaf,” in Proc. 2020 IEEE
DASC/PiCom/CBDCom/CyberSciTech. IEEE, 2020, pp. 640–649.
[41] M. Shahrad et al., “Serverless in the wild: Characterizing and optimizing
the serverless workload at a large cloud provider,” in Proc. USENIX ATC
’20, 2020, pp. 205–218.
[42] A. Joosen et al., “Serverless cold starts and where to ﬁnd them,” in Proc.
EuroSys, 2025, pp. 938–953.
[43] M. Copik, G. Kwasniewski, M. Besta, M. Podstawski, and T. Hoeﬂer,
“Sebs: A serverless benchmark suite for function-as-a-service computing,”
in Proc. 22nd Int. Middleware Conf., 2021, pp. 64–78.
[44] T. H. Cormen, C. E. Leiserson, R. L. Rivest, and C. Stein, Introduction to
Algorithms. Cambridge, MA, USA: MIT Press, 2022.
[45] P. Liu, X. Qiu, X. Chen, S. Wu, and X.-J. Huang, “Multi-timescale long
short-term memory neural network for modelling sentences and docu-
ments,” in Proc. 2015 Conf. Empirical Methods Natural Lang. Process.,
2015, pp. 2326–2335.
[46] A. Das, S. Imai, S. Patterson, and M. P. Wittie, “Performance optimization
for edge-cloud serverless platforms via dynamic task placement,” in Proc.
IEEE/ACM Int. Symp. Cluster, Cloud Internet Comput., 2020, pp. 41–50.
[47] A.Shukla,S.Chaturvedi,andY.Simmhan,“Riotbench:AnIoTbenchmark
for distributed stream processing systems,” Concurrency Computation:
Pract. Experience, vol. 29, no. 21, pp. 1–22, 2017.
[48] “Gwa–t–12 bitbrainsm,” 2023. [Online]. Available: http://gwa.ewi.tudelft.
nl/datasets/gwa-t-12-bitbrains/
[49] M. Brooker, M. Danilov, C. Greenwood, and P. Piwonka, “On-demand
container loading in AWS lambda,” in Proc. USENIX ATC ’23, 2023,
pp. 315–328.
[50] S. Knight, H. X. Nguyen, N. Falkner, R. Bowden, and M. Roughan,
“The internet topology zoo,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 29, no. 9,
pp. 1765–1775, Oct. 2011.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
308
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
[51] “Service status,” 2023. [Online]. Available: https://cloudharmony.com/
status-of-dns-and-compute-and-storage
[52] D.-N. Le, S. Pal, and P. K. Pattnaik, “Openfaas,” in Cloud Computing Solu-
tions: Architecture, Data Storage, Implementation and Security. Hoboken,
NJ, USA: Wiley, 2022 .
[53] F. Carpio, M. Michalke, and A. Jukan, “Benchfaas: Benchmarking server-
less functions in an edge computing network testbed,” IEEE Netw., vol. 37,
no. 5, pp. 81–88, Sep. 2023.
[54] F. Pedregosa et al., “Scikit-learn: Machine learning in python,” J. Mach.
Learn. Res., vol. 12, pp. 2825–2830, 2011.
[55] Q. Weng et al., “Beware of fragmentation: Scheduling GPU-Sharing
workloads with fragmentation gradient descent,” in Proc. USENIX ATC
’23, 2023, pp. 995–1008.
[56] H. Topcuoglu, S. Hariri, and M.-Y. Wu, “Performance-effective and low-
complexity task scheduling for heterogeneous computing,” IEEE Trans.
Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 260–274, Mar. 2002.
Zichuan Xu (Member, IEEE) received the BSc and
ME degrees in computer science from the Dalian
University of Technology in China in 2008 and 2011,
respectively, and the PhD degree in computer science
from the Australian National University in 2016.
From 2016 to 2017, he was a research associate
with the Department of Electronic and Electrical
Engineering, University College London, U.K.. He
is currently a professor in School of Software with
the Dalian University of Technology. His research
interests include mobile edge computing, serverless
computing, network function virtualization, Internet of Things, and algorithm
design. He serves as an Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Parallel
and Distributed Systems.
Peichen Liu (Graduate Student Member, IEEE) is
currently working toward the PhD degree with the
School of Software, Dalian University of Technology,
Dalian, China. His research interests include mobile
edge computing, reinforcement learning, approxima-
tion algorithm design, and AI infrastructure/system.
Qiufen Xia (Member, IEEE) received the BSc and
ME degrees in computer science from the Dalian
University of Technology in China, in 2009 and 2012,
respectively, and the PhD degree in computer science
from the Australian National University in 2017. She
is currently an associate professor with the Dalian
University of Technology. Her research interests in-
clude mobile cloud computing, query evaluation, Big
Data analytics, Big Data management in distributed
clouds, and cloud computing.
Weifa Liang (Fellow Member, IEEE) received the
BSc degree computer science from Wuhan Univer-
sity, China in 1984, the ME degree computer science
from the University of Science and Technology of
China in 1989, and the PhD degree computer science
from the Australian National University in 1998. He
was a professor in the Australian National University.
He is currently a professor in the Department of Com-
puter Science with the City University of Hong Kong.
His research interests include design and analysis
of energy efﬁcient routing protocols for Internet of
Things, mobile edge computing (MEC), network function virtualization (NFV),
software-deﬁned networking (SDN), approximation algorithms, combinatorial
optimization, and graph theory. He is currently an associate editor in the Editorial
Board of IEEE Transactions on Communications.
Guangyuan Xu is currently working toward the PhD
degreewiththeSchoolofSoftware,DalianUniversity
of Technology, Dalian, China. His current research
interests include mobile edge computing, reliability
computing, satellite edge computing, and resource
allocation.
Wenzheng Xu (Member, IEEE) received the BSc,
ME and PhD degrees in computer science from
Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China, in 2008,
2010, and 2015, respectively. He currently is an as-
sociate professor with the Sichuan University and
was a visitor with the Australian National University.
His research interests include wireless ad hoc and
sensor networks, mobile computing, approximation
algorithms, combinatorial optimization, online social
networks, and graph theory.
Pan Zhou (Senior Member, IEEE) received the BS
degree in the Advanced Class of the Huazhong Uni-
versity of Science and Technology, the MS degree
in the Department of Electronics and Information
Engineering from HUST, Wuhan, China, in 2006
and 2008, respectively, and the PhD degree in the
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering with
the Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech),
in 2011, Atlanta, USA. He is currently a full pro-
fessor and the PhD advisor with Hubei Engineering
Research Center on Big Data Security, School of
Cyber Science and Engineering, HUST.. He is also an associate editor for
IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. His current research
interest includes: security and privacy, Big Data analytics, machine learning,
and information networks.
Hao Li is currently an associate researcher in the
Institute of Software at China Coal Research Institute.
Hao’s research interests include coal mine intellec-
tualization, automation of fully mechanized mining
face, edge computing, AI and Internet of Things.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:58:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
