44
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
A Hybrid Fault-Tolerant Workﬂow Scheduling With
Performance Fluctuated Cloud Resources
Qian Ren
and Guangshun Yao
Abstract—With the increasing complexity of cloud systems, re-
source performance ﬂuctuation and failure have become two signif-
icant factors that affect task execution in the cloud, particularly for
workﬂow tasks with precedence constraints. The former often leads
to uncertain task execution time, while the latter can result in task
abortion. Although many cloud workﬂow scheduling algorithms
have been proposed for fault tolerance or uncertain task execution
time separately, these two issues simultaneously exist in practice
and have not yet been thoroughly explored. This article proposes
a hybrid fault-tolerant cloud workﬂow scheduling algorithm de-
signed to study the failures of cloud resources and uncertain task
execution time simultaneously. The proposed scheduling process
consists of four phases: preprocessing, initial scheduling, online
scheduling, and online adjustment. Two fundamental and widely
recognized strategies for fault tolerance, replication and resub-
mission, are integrated into the algorithm. An elastic resource
provisioning mechanism is also designed to adjust active resources
dynamically.Performanceevaluationsonbothrandomlygenerated
and real-world workﬂows demonstrate that the algorithm effec-
tively schedules deadline-constrained workﬂows under uncertain
task execution time while guaranteeing fault tolerance.
Index Terms—Cloud workﬂow scheduling, fault tolerance,
performance ﬂuctuation, resubmission, replication.
I. INTRODUCTION
M
ANY intricate issues are often composed of hundreds
or even thousands of tasks with interdependent rela-
tionships, and can be referred to as workﬂows [1], [2]. These
workﬂows are frequently time-bound and necessitate mas-
sive and distributed computing resources for punctual execu-
tion. In recent times, cloud services have been increasingly
utilized for these workﬂows due to the decrease in utiliza-
tion costs and ﬂexibility of computing power. Particularly,
Received 28 April 2025; revised 1 November 2025; accepted 13 November
2025. Date of publication 21 November 2025; date of current version 5 Febru-
ary 2026. This work was supported in part by the Anhui Provincial Natural
Science Foundation under Grant 2408085MF177, in part by the Key Project
of Anhui University Science Research under Grant 2023AH051629, Grant
2023AH040221, and Grant KJ2021A1064, in part by the Open Project of State
Key Laboratory for Novel Software Technology under Grant KFKT2025B36,
in part by the Anhui Provincial Leading Project for Academic Disciplines under
GrantDTR2025051,andinpartbytheChuzhouUniversityResearchFoundation
under Grant 2022XJZD15 and Grant 2022XJYB04. (Corresponding author:
Guangshun Yao.)
Qian Ren is with the College of Computer and Information Engineer-
ing, Chuzhou University, Chuzhou 239000, China (e-mail: renqian99@
chzu.edu.cn).
GuangshunYaoiswiththeCollegeofComputerandInformationEngineering,
Chuzhou University, Chuzhou 239000, China, and also with the State Key Lab-
oratory for Novel Software Technology, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210023,
China (e-mail: yaoguangs@126.com).
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TSC.2025.3635177
Infrastructure-as-a-Service clouds offer preconﬁgured virtual
machines(VMs)forleasing,allowingcustomerstoaccessnearly
unlimited VMs on a pay-per-use basis [2]. While the beneﬁts
are substantial, the cloud resources have a high probability of
resource failure due to various factors [3], [4]. Furthermore, each
cloud server is virtualized into a set of VMs, which share the
same hardware resources, such as CPU, I/O, storage, and net-
work. The resource sharing scheme can easily lead to resource
interference among different VMs on the same server, resulting
in ﬂuctuations in VM performance and subsequently uncertain
task execution time [1], [5]. The performance of VMs in the
Amazon EC2 cloud has been found to exhibit a 24% variation, as
reported in [6]. Both VM failures and performance ﬂuctuations
have a signiﬁcant impact on task scheduling, particularly for the
cases with deadline constraints. For tasks that are precedence
constrained, such as those in a workﬂow instance, the impact
is even more serious. This is because the completion delay of
one task caused by either VM failure or performance ﬂuctuation
can spread to the tasks on the same VM and further to their suc-
cessors [4], [7]. Therefore, providing an effective fault-tolerant
mechanism is mandatory for deadline-constrained workﬂows in
resource performance ﬂuctuated cloud systems.
In this paper, we consider the fault-tolerant cloud workﬂow
scheduling problem with performance ﬂuctuated VMs. The
tasks in the soft deadline constrained workﬂow are precedence
constrained and they can be allocated to VMs. VMs are differ-
ently conﬁgured (CPU and memory) and elastically provisioned
based on the scheduling requirements, but they are unreliable
during usage due to performance ﬂuctuation and failure. Dead-
lines, elastic resource provisioning, performance ﬂuctuation,
and VM failure are taken into account for the problem under
study. Replication and resubmission, two fundamental operators
in most fault-tolerant strategies, are adopted for fault tolerance.
Replication involves submitting primary and replicate copies
of a task to different process units simultaneously to achieve
fault tolerance. Resubmission tries to ﬁnd another alternative
suitable resource to reexecute the task after a fault occurs [4], [7],
[8]. The stochastically of task execution time is adopted to deal
with the uncertain task execution time caused by performance
ﬂuctuation.
Failure and performance ﬂuctuation of heterogeneous re-
sources, elasticity of resource provisioning, and deadline for
workﬂow instance make the problem difﬁcult, with the main
challenges being: (i) There is a higher probability that workﬂow
instances might be ﬁnished before their deadlines if all tasks
of these instances are assigned to faster VMs. Faster VMs
1939-1374 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artiﬁcial intelligence and similar technologies.
Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
REN AND YAO: HYBRID FAULT-TOLERANT WORKFLOW SCHEDULING WITH PERFORMANCE FLUCTUATED CLOUD RESOURCES
45
might be overloaded, which leads to more serious performance
ﬂuctuation [9] and a higher risk of failure [10] to these VMs.
Either performance ﬂuctuation or failure of VMs leads to a delay
in the task completion time. The delay can widely propagate to
the tasks on the same VM and further to their successors, and
bring the effected workﬂow instances be completed beyond their
deadlines. It is hard to satisfy deadline for workﬂow scheduling
with delay propagation caused by either performance ﬂuctuation
or failure of heterogeneous VMs. (ii) Though resubmission and
replication are two fundamental operators for fault tolerance,
they are suited for execution and scheduling stages respectively,
and usually conﬂict with each other. Generally, a higher re-
submission indicates better resource utilization with more time
consumed whereas more replicates of tasks imply less time
consumed with worse resource utilization. It is not easy to select
a fault-tolerant strategy (resubmission, replication or both) for
each task to enhance resource utilization and to guarantee task
execution time simultaneously. (iii) For workﬂows with different
arrival times, the required resources change dynamically. More
resources should become active if more workﬂows arrive. Some
resources are converted into the sleep state if fewer resources
are required. It is difﬁcult to dynamically balance the number of
resources between active and sleep states.
In this paper, the HFWPF (Hybrid Fault-Tolerant Cloud
Workﬂow Scheduling with Performance Fluctuated Resources)
is proposed for the considered problem. Both the failures and
performance ﬂuctuation of VMs are considered in HFWPF.
Replication and resubmission are integrated in HFWPF for fault
tolerance with high resource utilization and less time consump-
tion. An elastic resource provisioning mechanism is designed
and incorporated into HFWPF to adjust active resources dy-
namically. The main contributions of this paper are as follows.
r A novel workﬂow scheduling architecture is designed to
mitigate the delay propagation caused by either perfor-
mance ﬂuctuation or failure of heterogeneous cloud re-
sources.
r A hybrid fault-tolerant strategy integrating resubmission
with replication is designed to balance resource utilization
and time consumption for scheduling deadline-constrained
workﬂows with performance ﬂuctuated cloud resources.
r An elastic resource partition mechanism is developed. It
is incorporated in HFWPF to dynamically adjust active
resources for enhancing resource utilization.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. The related
work is discussed in Section II. In Section III, we describe the
cloud systems, workﬂow and fault model used in this paper.
The proposed HFWPF is presented in Section IV and evalu-
ated in Section V, followed by conclusions and future work in
Section VI.
II. RELATED WORK
As this study is conducted for fault-tolerant cloud workﬂow
scheduling with performance ﬂuctuated resources, we only fo-
cus on researches designed on cloud workﬂow scheduling in the
context of fault tolerance and performance ﬂuctuated resources
in this section.
A. Cloud Workﬂow Scheduling With Fault Tolerance
In the past few decades, many fault-tolerant approaches have
beenproposedtomitigatetheimpactsofresourcefaults.Qiu[11]
advised to adopt different fault tolerance strategies for different
components in a distributed system based on their statistical
rank. Javadi [12] attempted to predict faults based on fail-
ure models. Jhawar [13] suggested utilizing third-party fault-
tolerant mechanisms. However, these approaches often require
specialized knowledge of the target infrastructure.
Resubmission is a widely used strategy for fault tolerance
in distributed systems. It submits and executes the interrupted
task again on the same or another process unit after a failure. In
last decades, lots of resubmission based algorithms have been
proposed for workﬂow scheduling [14], [15]. Less resources are
consumedbytheseresubmissionbasedalgorithms.Nonetheless,
resubmission can signiﬁcantly delay the ﬁnish time of tasks
after failures, which is catastrophic for deadline-constrained
workﬂows. Furthermore, the uncertain task execution time are
rarely considered in these algorithms.
Replication is another fundamental and widely recognized
technique for fault tolerance and usually consumes less time [7].
It generates many copies (one primary copy and one or more
replicate copies) for one task and schedules these copies to
different process units. If the process unit with the primary copy
is suspended because of a fault, the replicate copies on other
process units are executed to guarantee the successful comple-
tion of this task [7]. In recent years, many replication based
algorithms have been proposed for fault-tolerant cloud workﬂow
scheduling [3], [16], [17]. However, these algorithms typically
consume more resources than resubmission based algorithms
and have worse resource utilization as additional resources are
required for the replicate copies. Moreover, these algorithms
are designed based on deterministic resource performance and
cannot be used for scheduling with performance ﬂuctuated
resources.
Different from the above studies in that it only adopts a single
fundamental fault-tolerant strategy, Yao [4], Plankensteiner [8]
and Dong [18] applied both replication and resubmission si-
multaneously for fault-tolerant workﬂow scheduling. In [4],
the deadline of a workﬂow instance was divided into multiple
sub-deadlines for all tasks. Based on the sub-deadline, each
task selects one strategy from resubmission and replication to
achieve fault tolerance. In [8], the impact of the resubmission
of each task was used to adjust the replication size of this
task to balance resubmission and replication. In [18], deep
reinforcement learning was used to select the appropriate fault
tolerantstrategyfromresubmissionandreplicationforeachtask.
Farid et al. [19] employed replication by running three copies
of each task on heterogeneous VMs, and used resubmission
by re-executing tasks whose results have low conﬁdence or
miss their sub-deadlines. Recently, both Setlur [20] and Li [21]
integrated checkpoint-restart with replication and resubmission
for fault-tolerant cloud workﬂow scheduling. Nevertheless, all
these algorithms are still based on deterministic resource per-
formance and cannot be used for the problem under this study
directly.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
46
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
B. Cloud Workﬂow Scheduling With Performance Fluctuated
Resources
Recently, both Chen [1], [5] and Liu [2] proposed online
scheduling algorithms for deadline-constrained cloud work-
ﬂows with random arrivals and uncertain task execution time.
By employing statistical methods to estimate real task execution
times, Cai et al. [22] introduced an online delay-based dynamic
algorithm for cloud workﬂow scheduling with stochastic task
execution time. Rodriguez et al. [23] proposed a meta-heuristic
method to dynamically rent resource intervals for workﬂows
with stochastic task execution time. To mitigate the effects
of performance variation of resources while meeting work-
ﬂow deadlines, Calheiros et al. [24] utilized budget surplus
and idle time of provisioned VMs to replicate workﬂow tasks.
Xing et al. [25] designed a local search-driven periodic schedul-
ing algorithm that uses task waiting time to alleviate the neg-
ative effects of uncertain task execution times. Xu et al. [26]
and Rajput [27] explored real-time workﬂow scheduling on
multi-cloud systems under stringent deadline constraints and
uncertain task execution times. Chen [28] and Lin [29] extended
this research to Edge-Cloud environments. Recently, Pan [30]
utilized a time-series-based prediction model to predict the time-
varying performance of VMs, and then scheduled workﬂow
tasks based on the predicted results. Bader [31] and Yang [32]
adopted Bayesian linear regression and multilayer neural net-
works, respectively, to predict uncertain task execution time.
Moreover, several cloud workﬂow scheduling algorithms have
been proposed to optimize multiple objectives in the context of
uncertain task execution time. Qin [33] proposed a scheduling
algorithm for optimizing workﬂow execution time and monetary
cost. Ye et al. [34] and Taghinezhad-Niar [35] aimed to optimize
monetary cost, resource utilization, and workﬂow success ratio.
However, resource faults, which can lead to disastrous results
for precedence-constrained tasks in cloud systems, are not con-
sidered in these algorithms.
Different from above work, this study considers the fault-
tolerant cloud workﬂow scheduling problem with performance
ﬂuctuated resources. Both fault tolerance and performance ﬂuc-
tuationareconsidered.Tothebestofourknowledge,theproblem
considered in this paper has not been studied yet even though it
widely occurs in practice.
III. SYSTEM MODEL AND PROBLEM FORMULATION
A. System Model
In our model, the cloud systems offer a set of M types of
VMs V M = {vt1, vt2, . . . , vtM} to customers. For example,
Amazon EC2 provides 9 types of computing optimized C6g
instances.1 All VMs of the same type vtm have the same ideal
processing capacity vpm, while VMs from different types are
heterogeneous and have different processing speeds. The nth
VM with type vtm is denoted as vmn. The total number of
active VMs with type vtm is denoted as Nm. All VMs are
assumed to be located in the same data center or region, so the
1https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/
Fig. 1.
Scheduling architecture.
network bandwidth NB between VMs is roughly equal [3], [4].
Furthermore, VMs can concurrently receive data when they are
executing tasks [1]. Empowered by virtualization technology,
cloud systems provide an illusion of unlimited resources [2],
[16]. Hence, the number of leased VMs is unlimited in this
study. Similar to the elastic resource provision adopted by
Amazon EC2, customers can scale the leased VMs according
to their requirements. The setup times of VMs are assumed to
be identical when they are leased and are denoted by Tboot. The
VMs are only active during their leased time intervals.
We denote the workﬂow instances as a set of W =
{w1, . . . , wI}. Each workﬂow instance wi ∈W(1 ≤i ≤I) is
deﬁned by its arrival time ai, soft deadline di, and structure
Gi. The structure of wi is further modeled as a directed acyclic
graph Gi = (Ti, Ei). The set of tasks in wi is denoted as
Ti = {tis, ti1, . . . , tiJ, tie}, where tis and tie are dummy source
and sink tasks with 0 execution time. The size of each task
tij(1 ≤j ≤J) is denoted as Sij. The set of precedence con-
straints for tasks in wi is represented by Ei = {(tih, tij)|tih ∈
Ti, tij ∈Ti, h < j}, where (tih, tij) ∈Ei indicates that task
tij depends on the output of task tih for its execution. Task
tij can start executing only after receiving all the necessary
output data from its predecessors, which ensures the hierarchical
parent-child relationships within a workﬂow instance. The size
of transferred data from task tih to tij is denoted as Di
hj,
and the time used for transferring Di
hj (denoted as TT i
hj) is
Di
hj/NB if tih and tij are allocated on different VMs, and
0 otherwise. The set of predecessors of task tij is denoted by
P(tij).
For scheduling W, we propose a new scheduling architecture
as shown in Fig. 1. It consists of a Workﬂow Analyzer, a Task
Pool (TP), a Resubmission Controller, a Replication Controller,
and a Resource Manager. For each arriving wi, the Scheduler
determines whether to accept it through the cooperation of
workﬂow Analyzer and Resource Manager. If the Scheduler
cannot ﬁnd a feasible scheduling strategy for wi within the given
deadline under the ideal state, it rejects wi. Once wi is accepted,
the proposed HFWPF is invoked. It analyzes the relationship
among workﬂow tasks and then divide the workﬂow deadline
into multiple sub-deadlines for all tasks in wi. Thereafter, Work-
ﬂow Analyzer delivers the source task of wi for scheduling, and
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
REN AND YAO: HYBRID FAULT-TOLERANT WORKFLOW SCHEDULING WITH PERFORMANCE FLUCTUATED CLOUD RESOURCES
47
also stores other tasks into TP. Only one task is allowed to wait
on a VM besides the executing task. Therefore, the ﬂuctuation
of task execution time on a VM only affects the waiting task on
the same VM.
For each ready task tij in TP, the Scheduler selects a fault-
tolerant strategy from resubmission and replication for tij. Re-
submission is selected if tij has enough time to execute again,
otherwise replication is selected. Moreover, the Scheduler also
generates an initial allocation result for tij during the initial
scheduling process. If tij selects replication for fault tolerance,
a replicate copy is generated besides the primary one and they are
allocated to two different VMs. If tij selects resubmission, tij is
only allocated to one VM during the initial scheduling process.
If tij is suspended caused by resource failure during the task
execution process, the Scheduler adopts an online scheduling
scheme to select a suitable resource for tij. Furthermore, an
online adjustment scheme is developed to adjust the available
time slots of some unexecuted tasks according to the task exe-
cution results during task execution process. It also mitigates
the propagated impacts of the uncertain task execution time
caused by the performance ﬂuctuation of VMs. Moreover, an
elastic resource provisioning mechanism is adopted during the
whole process to dynamically adjust active resources. When one
active VM containing tasks with the resubmission strategy fails,
resubmission is performed immediately.
Differ from deterministic scheduling that assumes the re-
source performance and task execution time are deterministic,
the uncertain scheduling considers the uncertainties in these
parameters [1]. Previous work have proven that the task exe-
cution time is subject to normal distributions [2], [22]. In this
paper, we assume that the task execution time on a performance
ﬂuctuated VM is a stochastic variable with independent and
normal distributions. We also assume that the expected value
and variance of task execution can be estimated by several
methods [2], [22], which is beyond the scope of this paper. The
approximate weight used in [2] is adopted as the estimation of
the task execution time with the stochastic characteristic. Given
X as the task execution time, the approximate weight w(X) is
deﬁned as
w(X) =
⎧
⎨
⎩
E(X) +

D(X)
if D(X)
E(X)2 ≤1
E(X) ·

1 +
1
√
D(X)

otherwise
(1)
where E(X) and D(X) denote the expected value and the
variance of variable X respectively. Let N(μ, σ2) denote the
normal distribution with expected value μ and variance σ2. As
each value of X, X ∼N(μ, σ2), satisﬁes σ/μ2 ≤1, the weight
of X is expressed as w(X) = E(X) +

D(X) [2].
Tasks fail when the resource units where they are located
fail. In this paper, we focus on the failure of VMs. When a
VM fails, all the tasks on this VM cannot be ﬁnished. It is also
supposed that there exists a fault-detection mechanism, such
as heartbeats [15], fail-signal and acceptance test [3], [4], [16],
to detect failures. The fault detection time is ignored in this
paper. The faults might be transient or permanent and they are
assumed to be independent. Each fault only affects a single VM.
Only one VM is assumed to fail simultaneously at any time. The
proposed model can be easily extended to the case with multiple
VM failures in large-scale cloud environments by dividing the
cloud systems into several small groups. In each small group,
the proposed model is applied as in [3], [4], [5], [7], [16].
B. Problem Formulation
HFWPFaims tomaximizethecompletionqualityof deadline-
constrained workﬂows in performance ﬂuctuated cloud re-
sources with fault tolerance. To formulate the scheduling prob-
lem, we ﬁrst deﬁne some notations.
Let boolean variable zij ∈{0, 1} represent the fault tolerance
strategy adopted by task tij. zij = 1 means that tij adopts
resubmission and zij = 0 implies that tij uses replication. There
is only one replicate for tij when zij = 0 and the primary copy
tP
ij and the replicate copy tR
ij are executed on two different
VMs simultaneously. When zij = 0, vP
ij and vR
ij denote the VMs
where tP
ij and tR
ij are allocated respectively. For fault tolerance,
vP
ij ̸= vR
ij. Let boolean variables xij
mn ∈{0, 1} represent alloca-
tions of tasks to VMs. xij
mn = 1 if the jth task in wi is allocated
to vmn, which is the nth VM with type vtm.
Different from deterministic scheduling, the task execution
time under this study is uncertain. Only when task tij is exe-
cuted by a VM successfully, its actual start time ast(tij) and
the actual ﬁnish time aft(tij) can be obtained. For a given
workﬂow instance wi, its actual ﬁnish time is equal to aft(tie).
We deﬁne the completion quality of wi as Qi = max{0, 1 −
max{0, aft(tie)−di
di−ai
}}, where ai and di denote the arrival time
and soft deadline of wi respectively. If aft(tie) is less than di,
Qi is set to 1. Otherwise, Qi is measured by the tardiness degree
between aft(tie) and di. The workﬂow deadline di is a soft
deadline, meaning that workﬂow instance wi can complete after
di but with a penalized completion quality Qi. The average
customer satisfaction Q for all accepted workﬂow instances
is I
i=1 Qi/I. A greater Q implies that more instances are
completed by or near to their deadlines. The considered problem
is modelled as follows.
max Q =
I
i=1 Qi
I
(2)
s.t.
Qi = max
	
0, 1 −max
	
0, aft(tie) −di
di −ai


,
∀i ∈{1, . . . , I}
(3)
aft(tih) + TT i
hj ≤ast(tij), (tih, tij) ∈Ei
∀i ∈{1, . . . , I}, ∀h ∈{1, . . . , J}, ∀j ∈{1, . . . , J}
(4)
M

m=1
Nm

n=1
xij
mn =
	
2 if zij = 0
1 if zij = 1 ,
∀i ∈{1, . . . , I}, ∀j ∈{1, . . . , J}
(5)
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
48
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
I

i=1
J

j=1
xij
mn ≤1, ∀m ∈{1, . . . , M}, ∀n ∈{1, . . . , Nm}
(6)
xij
mn ∈{0, 1}, zij ∈{0, 1}
(7)
Exp. (3) describes the completion quality of wi with a arrival
time ai and a soft deadline di. Exp. (4) indicates the data
dependencies of tasks in wi. Exp. (5) denotes one task with
resubmission can be performed only on one VM at a time while
one task with replication can be performed only on two VMs
with the same VM type at a time. Exp. (6) describes each VM
can only perform one task at a time. Exp. (7) denotes the binary
variables of scheduling for task tij and the binary variables of
the adoption of a fault-tolerant strategy for tij.
IV. ALGORITHM IMPLEMENTATION
The proposed HFWPF has four main phases: Preprocessing,
Initial Scheduling, Online Scheduling and Online Adjustment. It
is motivated on receipt of two monitor signals: the new workﬂow
instance arrival signal and the task execution completion signal.
When receiving a new workﬂow instance wi with arrival
time ai and soft deadline di, the scheduler takes a simulated
scheduling by NOSF [2], which ia a cloud workfolw scheduling
algorithm with uncertain task execution time, and then gets the
makespan (smsi) before real scheduling. If di −ai ≥smsi, wi
is accepted and the Preprocessing phase is trigged. Otherwise,
wi is returned to user for revising the deadline. For the accepted
wi, the time interval between ai and di is divided into multiple
sub-deadlines for all tasks in wi. Thereafter, tis ∈Ti is delivered
to the Initial Scheduling phase, and other tasks are stored into
TP.
When receiving a task execution completion signal, the sched-
uler ﬁnds the ready tasks in TP. A workﬂow task is deﬁned as
ready if this task has no predecessor, i.e., P(tij) = φ, or all the
immediate predecessor tasks of this task have been mapped to
VMs and at least one predecessor task has been completed [1].
Foreachreadytasktij inTP,theInitialSchedulingdeterminesits
fault-tolerant strategy, and also reserves corresponding resource
and serve time.
During the task execution process, if a task with resubmission
encounters a fault, the Online Scheduling is trigged to select a
suitable VM for executing it again. To make full advantage of
time slot, an Online Adjustment scheme is designed to adjust
sub-deadlines of some unexecuted tasks. The HFWPF is for-
mally described in Algorithm 1.
A. The Preprocessing Phase
It is obviously that if each task in wi is completed in/near its
sub-deadline, wi is ﬁnished within/near its deadline [4]. For an
accepted instance wi, the Preprocessing phase divides the time
slot between ai and di to multiple sub-interval for each task
in wi. Lots of deadline division studies have been reported in
last decades [2], [4], [36]. However, the approaches in both [4]
and [36] are designed under deterministic task execution time
while the method in [2] is tailored for uncertain task execution
Algorithm 1: HFWPF().
time. Therefor, we adopt the method proposed in [2] in this
study.Moredetailsaboutthealgorithmfordeadlinedivision,i.e.,
PrePro() in Line 5 in Algorithm 1, can refer to [2]. Thereafter,
each task tij in Ti has a initial available time slot [stij, dlij],
where stij and dlij are the start time and sub-deadline of tij
respectively.
According to [2], the time complexity of PrePro() for process-
ing an arrival workﬂow wi is O(J2), where J is the number of
tasks in workﬂow wi.
B. Initial Scheduling
For each ready task in TP, Initial Scheduling selects a cor-
responding fault-tolerant strategy from either resubmission or
replication for this task. It also schedules this task to suit-
able VMs. In the following, we introduce some deﬁnitions
for Initial Scheduling. Let w(etij
mn) denote the approximation
weight of the stochastic execution time etij
mn for task tij on
VM vmn and can be calculated by Exp. (1). Let ψ(tij) de-
note the minimum etij
mn for task tij on all active VMs, i.e.,
ψ(tij) = minm∈{1,...,M}{minn∈{1,...,Nm} {etij
mn}}.
Previous studies have shown that resubmission is a time
consuming strategy for fault tolerance [4], [8]. In this paper, a
workﬂow task tij ∈Ti selects resubmission as its fault-tolerant
strategy and zij is set to 1 if
dlij −stij ≥2 × (Tboot +
max
tih∈P (tij) {TT i
hj} + ψ(tij)), (8)
in which Tboot is the VM initial boot time. Otherwise, tij selects
replication and zij is set to 0. When zij = 1, we deﬁne the exe-
cution before and after fault as initial execution and reexecution
respectively.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
REN AND YAO: HYBRID FAULT-TOLERANT WORKFLOW SCHEDULING WITH PERFORMANCE FLUCTUATED CLOUD RESOURCES
49
After selecting a fault-tolerant for tij, it is also need to sched-
ule tij to suitable VMs. When zij = 0, two VMs are required
for tP
ij and tR
ij respectively for fault tolerance. The sub-deadlines
for tP
ij and tR
ij are identical and equal to dlij. When zij = 1, if
a VM fault happens during the initial execution process of tij,
the reexecution process is required to be completed before its
sub-deadline dlij. The minimum time for the reexecution of tij
(denoted as rexij) should contain Tboot, maxtih∈P (tij) {TT i
hj}
and ψ(tij) at least, i.e.,
rexij = Tboot +
max
tih∈P (tij) {TT i
hj} + ψ(tij).
(9)
Therefore, the sub-deadline for the initial execution of tij is
dlij −rexij.
After selecting the fault tolerant strategy and deciding the
sub-deadline for ready task tij, Initial Scheduling needs to ﬁnd
a suitable VM for tij. It ﬁrst tries to allocate tij to an active VM.
If no active VM can satisfy the scheduling requirement of tij, a
new VM is activated and tij is allocated to this VM.
For ready task tij to be allocated on active VM vmn, we use
pstij
mn to denote the predicted start time of task tij as
pstij
mn = max
	
pftxy
mn,
max
tih∈P (tij)

aftih
m′n′ + TT i
hj

,
(10)
where pftxy
mn and aftih
m′n′ indicate the predicted ﬁnish time of
task txy on VM vmn and the actual ﬁnish time of task tih on
VM vm′n′ respectively. tih is one predecessor of tij. TT i
hj = 0
if vmn = vm′n′. The predicted ﬁnish time pftij
mn of task tij on
VM vmn can be expressed as
pftij
mn = pstij
mn + w

etij
mn

.
(11)
For one ready task tij with time slot [stij, dlij] and one active
VM vmn, if
pstij
mn ≥stij
and dlij ≥pftij
mn
(12)
is satisﬁed, vmn becomes one ready VM for tij and is added into
RVij, which denotes the set of ready VMs for tij. If multiple
active VMs satisfy Exp. (12), different selections are adopted for
tasks with different fault-tolerant strategies. If zij = 1, in order
to reserve enough time for the reexecution, the ready VM with
maximum processing capacity is selected. If zij = 0, the ready
VM with minimum processing capacity is selected to reduce the
user cost as the VMs with higher processing capacity are usually
more expensive. It is worthy noting that vP
ij ̸= vR
ij if zij = 0.
If no active VM can satisfy Exp. (12), some new VMs (the
predicted start time of these VMs is Tboot) that meet Exp. (12)
are activated and tij is allocated to these VMs. However, if
no VM can satisfy Exp. (12) even new VMs are activated,
i.e.,dlij < pftij
mn, the VM with the closest value to dlij is
selected as exceeding one subdeadline for a speciﬁc task does
not mean missing of the whole workﬂow instance deadline.
The Initial Scheduling procedure is formally described in Al-
gorithm 2. The pseudo-code for Allocate() used in Algorithm 2 is
described in Algorithm 3. As two different VMs are required for
task with replication while only one VM is required for task with
resubmission, the scheduling process for task with replication is
different from the process for task with resubmission as shown
in Algorithm 3.
Algorithm 2: InitialSch().
Algorithm 3: Allocate().
In analyzing the time complexity of Algorithm 2 for pro-
cessing workﬂow wi, it becomes evident that the complexity of
Lines 6–7 aligns with that of Lines 3–4 within the same algo-
rithm. Consequently, we focus on the time complexity of Lines
2–4 in Algorithm 2. Let NM represent the number of active
VMs with VM type vtM, which holds the maximum number
of active VMs across all types, and let Nin be the maximum
indegree among the tasks in wi. For each task tij, Algorithm 2
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
50
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
necessitates traversing all active VMs to compute ψ(tij) , which
is subsequently used in Exp. 8 (line 2 in Algorithm 2). This
computation requires time O(JMNM) at the worst-situation,
where M denotes the number of VM types in our model. The
temporal complexity of line 3 in Algorithm 2 stands at O(1).
The complexity of line 4 in Algorithm 2 is determined by
Algorithm 3. Within lines 3-7 of Algorithm 3, task tij needs to
traverse its all predecessors and all active VMs for calculating
pstij
mn and pftij
mn by Exp. (10) and Exp. (11). These calculated
values are then compared with all all active VMs by Exp. (12.
As a result, under worst-case scenarios, the time complexity
for lines 3-7 in Algorithm 3 is O(NinMNM). Regarding the
remainder of Algorithm 3, the time required traversing the set
of ready VMs RV can be regarded as a constant since the number
of VMs in RV is far less than that of active VMs. In summation,
the time complexity of Algorithm 3 is O(NinMNM), and thus,
the complexity of Algorithm 2 coalesces to O(JMNM + 1 +
NinMNM) = O((J + Nin)MNM).
C. Online Scheduling and Online Adjustment
During the task execution process, when zij = 0, tij is always
completed successfully even if one VM failure or performance
ﬂuctuation occurs. This is because that two VMs are selected to
execute tP
ij and tR
ij simultaneously and only one copy may meet
a fault under the proposed model. When zij = 1, tij is also
ﬁnished if no fault occurs during its initial execution processes.
If a fault happens, it is necessary to ﬁnd another VM for the ﬁrst
reexecution of tij as its deadline can allow it to execute at least
twice.
Let FTij denote the time at which the fault is detected
during the initial execution processes of tij with resubmission.
Obviously, dlij > FTij > stij. Afterwards, we set the start time
and sub-deadline of tij as FTij and dlij for the ﬁrst reexecution
of tij respectively. Algorithm 3 is used again to ﬁnd a suitable
VM for the ﬁrst reexecution of tij.
If no fault occurs during the ﬁrst reexecution of tij, tij is
completed successfully. However, if the ﬁrst reexecution of tij
encounters another fault at time FT ′
ij, the remaining time for tij
is dlij −FT ′
ij. In this case, it is required to reselect the fault-
tolerant strategy for tij as its remaining available time may not
be enough to get another reexecution done. The start time and
sub-deadline of tij are set as FT ′
ij and dlij respectively. Then,
the same procedure in Algorithm 2 is used to select a suitable
fault-tolerant strategy and ﬁnd a suitable VM for tij. If a resource
failure occurs during the second and subsequent re-executions
of tij, the same process described above will still be followed.
The Online Scheduling procedure is formally described in
Algorithm 4. Noticeably, both the Initial Scheduling and Online
Scheduling incorporate elastic resource provisioning to improve
resource utilization as shown in Algorithms 3 and 4. Similar
to previous works such as [2] and [4], new VMs are activated
if the active VMs cannot satisfy the scheduling requirements.
However, unlike these works kept VMs active during their leased
time intervals, in the HFWPF algorithm, VMs become active
only when they execute tasks or are waiting for tasks, and the
waiting time is less than Tboot. Otherwise, the VMs are shut
Algorithm 4: OnlineSch().
Algorithm 5: OnlineAdj().
down immediately to enhance resource utilization and reduce
the likelihood of VM failures caused by prolonged idleness.
After all the predecessor tasks of tik have been completed,
the start time stik of tik is adjusted to
stik =
max
tij∈P (tik)

aft(tij) + TT i
jk

.
(13)
The Online Adjustment procedure is formally described in
Algorithm 5. By the above scheduling, the HFWPF tries to
complete each workﬂow task within or near its sub-deadline
as it reserves corresponding serve time interval for every possi-
ble resource fault and performance ﬂuctuation. In cases where
some considered faults and performance ﬂuctuations do not
occur in the actual execution process, some tasks can ﬁnish
before their sub-deadlines. These time intervals between the
actual ﬁnish times and sub-deadlines are then used to expand
the deadlines of waiting workﬂow tasks through the proposed
adjustment scheme, effectively alleviating their time constraints.
Furthermore, this scheme promotes unexecuted tasks to switch
from replication to resubmission as a means of fault tolerance,
resulting in reduced resource consumption.
We now analyze the complexity of Algorithms 4 and 5 respec-
tively. The time complexity of Algorithm 4 is obversely equal
to that of Algorithm 2, i.e., O((J + Nin)MNM). For Algo-
rithm 5, each task tij ∈Ti needs to traverse its all predecessors
for obtaining aftij in Line 3, which is used to adjust stik in
Line 4. Therefore, the time complexity of Algorithm 5 is
O(JNin) at the worst-situation.
V. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
To the best of our knowledge, there have been no studies
on fault-tolerant cloud workﬂow scheduling with performance
ﬂuctuating resources. In this paper, we conduct a series of
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
REN AND YAO: HYBRID FAULT-TOLERANT WORKFLOW SCHEDULING WITH PERFORMANCE FLUCTUATED CLOUD RESOURCES
51
experiments to demonstrate the performance of HFWPF. We
compare it with one of its variants, NEHFWPF (Non-Elastic-
HFWPF), which refrains from utilizing elastic resource pro-
visioning and maintains all VMs active for scheduling. The
quantity of active VMs is set to match the maximum number
of tasks at each layer in the test workﬂow instance. Addition-
ally, we compare HFWPF with two existing cloud workﬂow
scheduling algorithms: NOSF [2] and ICFWS [4]. NOSF is an
onliNe multi-workﬂOw Scheduling Framework for scheduling
deadline-constrained workﬂows with random arrivals and un-
certain task execution time. Its primary objective is to min-
imize rental costs while enhancing resource utilization. The
scheduling process in NOSF consists of three phases: work-
ﬂow preprocessing, VM allocation and feedback process. In
the initial phase, the framework determines task priorities for
each incoming workﬂow instance. The second phase involves
heuristically assigning a VM with available billing time to
tasks that are prepared for scheduling. The ﬁnal phase adap-
tively adjusts the originally assigned priorities and subdead-
lines of the tasks ready for scheduling, such that the deadline
of the workﬂow instance can be met. Notably, NOSF does
not account for cloud resource failures. Consequently, in our
experimental scenario where a task in NOSF experiences a
resource failure, it is dynamically reassigned to another suit-
able VM during the experiments. ICFWS is designed for a
single workﬂow under deterministic task execution time and
uses a similar fault-tolerance method as the proposed HFWPF.
To enable ICFWS to handle multiple workﬂows, we trigger
it to schedule all workﬂow tasks as soon as a new workﬂow
arrives. The above algorithms are compared from the following
metrics:
1) Quality of Task Completion (QTC) is deﬁned as Exp. (2),
reﬂecting the task completion quality of the compared
algorithms in the context of soft deadlines, faults and
resource performance ﬂuctuation.
2) VMs Reserve Time Rate (VRTR) is deﬁned as the ratio
of the total active time of all VMs in the context of fault
and performance ﬂuctuation over the total serve time of
all VMs under ideal status got by HEFT [37], reﬂecting
the system resource consumption cost of the compared
algorithms under fault and performance ﬂuctuation.
Similar to [3], [4], [5], [7], [16], the following assumptions
are adopted in our experiments: (1) All VMs are co-located
within the same data center, (2) All VMs are interconnected with
identicalandstablenetwork,(3)AllVMsexhibituniformstartup
times, (4) Only a single VM fails at any given instance, and each
VM failure is an independent event. Besides the task execution
time, our experiments account for the time required to transfer
databetweenpairsofVMs,denotedasTT i
hj inExps.(4),(8),(9),
and (10), and TT i
jk in Exp. (13). Additionally, our experiments
consider the setup times of VMs, represented by Tboot in Exps.
(8) and (9). However, the duration for cloud fault detection is
not included, as effective fault detection algorithms can identify
system failures within just one second [38], [39]. The subsequent
sections detail experiments conducted under various conditions,
each replicated 100 times, with the reported results representing
the averaged outcomes.
TABLE I
CONFIGURATIONS FOR THE USED VMS
TABLE II
PARAMETERS FOR THE GENERATED WORKFLOWS
A. Evaluation on Simulated Cloud Platform With Randomly
Generated Workﬂows
1) Experimental Setting: To observe the performance of the
compared algorithms, we ﬁrst conduct the experiments on ran-
domly generated workﬂows, which is published by the DAG
generator tool.2 Five parameters, i.e., task number, width, reg-
ularity, density and jumps, are used to deﬁne the workﬂow
instance shape as shown in Table II. More detail about these
parameters can be found in [3], [4]. To clearly analyze the
performance of the compared algorithms, the experiments are
conducted on WorkﬂowSim [40], which is a popular simulation
toolkit for cloud workﬂow scheduling [3], [4], [15]. 5 types of
VMs are simulated for experiments as shown in Table I. The VM
conﬁgurations are set by referring to the instances in Amazon
EC2.3 According to [7], the initial boot time for a VM (Tboot) is
set to 15 seconds, and the network bandwidth (NB ) between
VMs is conﬁgured to be 10 Gbps.
For each generated workﬂow instance, the deadline is set as
follows.
di = ai + α × smsi,
(14)
where α is a deadline factor which reﬂects how tight or loose
the workﬂow deadlines are. For task tij located on VM vmn
with ideal processing capacity vpm, its task execution time
etij
mn is modelled as a stochastic variable following the normal
distribution with the expected value μ(etij
mn) and the variance
σ(etij
mn)2, we set μ(etij
mn) and σ(etij
mn) as
μ

etij
mn

= Sij
vpm
, σ

etij
mn

= μ

etij
mn

× β,
(15)
where β is a variance factor that indicates the ﬂuctuation of the
task execution time caused by the performance ﬂuctuation of
VMs. Inour experiments, thetaskexecutiontimeetij
mn is deﬁned
using a normal random number generator with the expected
value of μ(etij
mn) and the standard deviation of σ(etij
mn).
2https://github.com/frs69wq/daggen
3https://aws.amazon.com/cn/ec2/previous-generation/
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
52
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
TABLE III
PARAMETERS OF THE SIMULATION
Fig. 2.
Performance impact on QTC as a function of α.
For each workﬂow instance, four parameters are utilized for
evaluation: the deadline factor α, the task execution time vari-
ance factor β, the VM failure rate (FR), and the communication
to computation ratio (CCR). The CCR is deﬁned as the ratio
of the average communication cost to the average computation
cost. A higher CCR indicates a relatively greater communication
load compared to the computation load. The ﬁrst parameter
reﬂects the impact of the workﬂow instance deadline on the
performance of the algorithms being compared. The subsequent
two parameters are used to indicate the inﬂuence of resource
characteristics, such as performance ﬂuctuations and failures,
on the performance. The ﬁnal parameter assesses the impact of
varying workﬂow structures on the performance of the algo-
rithms under comparison.
For randomly generated workﬂows, we change a single pa-
rameter from α, β, FR and CCR while keeping the other param-
eters ﬁxed in each group of experiments. Table III presents the
parameters and their values for the simulations.
2) Performance Impact of Deadlines: First, we study the
performance impact of the deadline factor α , which increases
from 0.5 to 2.5in steps of 0.5. β, FR and CCR are set to 0.3,
7.5% and 1 respectively.
The impact on QTC as a function of the deadline factor α is
shown in Fig. 2, which shows that the QTCs of all algorithms
show an increasing trend with an increase in α. The reason lies
in that the available time slots for each task become looser and
looser with the increase in α. As a result, more and more tasks
are ﬁnished before the deadlines of workﬂow instances. For
each α, Fig. 2 also shows that HFWPF and NEHFWPF yield
similar results of QTCs, and both of them are better than the
other algorithms. This result is attributed to the fact that both
uncertain task execution time and resource failure are considered
in HFWPF and NEHFWPF, while only one issue is taken into
account in either NOSF or ICFWS. Any unconsidered aspect
will inevitably lead to a decline in QTC. The unaccounted ﬂuc-
tuation of task execution time lowers the QTCs of ICFWS, which
Fig. 3.
Performance impact on VRTR as a function of α.
solely considers resource failure. The unconsidered resource
failure brings down the QTCs of NOSF, which only focuses on
uncertain task execution time. Although NOSF reallocates the
task on failed VM to another suitable VM for fault tolerance,
the process of ﬁnding suitable VM for reallocation takes some
time and thus brings down the QTCs of NOSF.
The impact on VRTR as a function of the deadline factor
α is shown in Fig. 3, which indicates that both HFWPF and
ICFWS have a decreasing trend of VRTRs with an increase
in α while the other two algorithms maintain essentially un-
changed VRTR values. Fig. 3 also indicates that NEHFWPF
has the highest VRTR values under each α and ICFWS gets
the intermediate results. Furthermore, NOSF produces the best
results of VRTRs for the ﬁrst two levels of α while HFWPF
obtains the best results at the other levels. This phenomenon
can be attributed to the different resource provision schemes
and fault tolerance strategies employed by each algorithm. NE-
HFWPF is the only algorithm that keeps all VMs active without
elastic resource provisioning, resulting in the highest and most
stable VRTRs. ICFWS, HFWPF, and NEHFWPF adopt both
replicationandresubmissionforfaulttolerance.Astheworkﬂow
deadline becomes tighter (smaller α), more tasks choose to
use replication for fault tolerance. Conversely, as the workﬂow
deadline becomes looser (larger α), more tasks switch from
replication to resubmission, which consumes less resources than
replication [4], [8]. Therefore, as α increases, the consumed
resources decrease, leading to the decreasing trend in VRTR
values observed in HFWPF and ICFWS. However, HFWPF con-
siders both resource failure and uncertain task execution time,
while ICFWS only focuses on fault tolerance. The unconsidered
uncertain task execution time in ICFWS leads to higher resource
consumption and thus higher VRTR values. NOSF is designed
for cloud workﬂow scheduling with uncertain task execution
time and resubmits tasks on failed resources in our simulations.
NOSF achieves the best VRTR values when α is less than 1.5
because it only uses resubmission for fault tolerance, while the
other algorithms use both replication and resubmission when α
is less than 1.5. When α is no less than 1.5, almost all tasks use
resubmission for faults. In this case, the different VM active
schemes result in different VRTR values. NOSF keeps VMs
active during their leased time intervals, with some unused time
slots within these intervals. In contrast, HFWPF keeps VMs
active only when they are executing tasks or waiting for tasks
with a waiting time less than Tboot. If not, the VMs are shut down
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
REN AND YAO: HYBRID FAULT-TOLERANT WORKFLOW SCHEDULING WITH PERFORMANCE FLUCTUATED CLOUD RESOURCES
53
Fig. 4.
Performance impact on QTC as a function of β.
Fig. 5.
Performance impact on VRTR as a function of β.
immediately. Therefore, HFWPF achieves better VRTR values
than NOSF when α is no less than 1.5.
By considering both QTC and VRTR, it is evident that the
proposed HFWPF outperforms all other tested algorithms in
terms of higher task completion quality and lower resource con-
sumption.Thisisbeneﬁcialforbothusersandresourceproviders
in cloud environments as users can receive satisfactory services
for their submitted workﬂows while resource providers can serve
more users with the same resources, thereby increasing their
revenues [4], [7]. Therefore, HFWPF is more valuable compared
to its competitors for both users and resource providers.
3) Performance Impact of Resource Performance Fluctua-
tion: We now focus on the performance impact of the task
execution time variance factor β , which increases from 0.1 to
0.5in steps of 0.1. α, FR and CCR are set to 1.5, 7.5% and 1
respectively.
The impact on QTC as a function of β is shown in Fig. 4,
which shows that all algorithms keep a decreasing trend of QTC
with the increase of β. This is because ﬂuctuations in resource
performance cause the resource processing speed to decrease,
resulting in lower than normal performance. Consequently, the
average task execution time increases with the increase of β,
leading to a decline in QTC for all algorithms. Fig. 4 also reveals
that HFWPF and its variant NEHFWPF have similar QTC values
and both of them outperform NOSF and ICFWS, which have the
lowest QTC values among all algorithms. The reasons for this
are the same as those explained in Fig. 2.
Fig. 6.
The impact on QTC as a function of FR.
The impact on VRTR as a function of β is shown in Fig. 5,
which indicates that NEHFWPF maintains constant VRTR val-
ues with the increase of β while the others exhibit an in-
creasing trend in VRTR. Furthermore, Fig. 5 also indicates that
HFWPF achieves the best VRTR results among all algorithms.
NEHFWPF keeps all VMs active regardless of resource perfor-
mance, resulting in the highest and consistent VRTR values. For
the other three algorithms, ﬂuctuations in resource performance
bring down the resource processing speed, as explained in Fig. 4.
This leads to increased resource consumption and a subsequent
decrease in their VRTR values. The reasons for HFWPF’s supe-
rior VRTR results are the same as those explained in Fig. 3.
4) Performance Impact of Resource Failures: We now turn
to the performance impact of the VM failure rate FR, which
increases from 2.5% to 12.5% in steps of 2.5%. α, β and CCR
are set to 1.5, 0.3 and 1 respectively.
The impact of failure rates FR on QTC is illustrated in
Fig. 6, which shows that all algorithms exhibit a decreasing
trend in QTC as FR increases. This is because all algorithms
employ resubmission as a fault-tolerant strategy for either all
or partial tasks. Speciﬁcally, HFWPF, NEHFWPF, and ICFWS
use resubmission for partial tasks, while NOSF employs it for
all tasks. As FR increases, more resources fail, necessitating
more resubmissions. Consequently, fewer tasks are completed
by their sub-deadlines, leading to lower QTC values. Fig. 6 also
reveals that HFWPFandNEHFWPFachievesimilar QTCvalues
and outperform NOSF and ICFWS. This is because HFWPF
and NEHFWPF consider both resource failure and performance
ﬂuctuation, whereas NOSF and ICFWS only consider one of
these factors.
The impact of FR on VRTR is shown in Fig. 7, which indicates
that NEHFWPF keeps stable and the highest VRTR values under
differentFRswhileHFWPF,NOSFandICFWShaveanincrease
tendencies in VRTR with the increase in FR. The NEHFWPF
holds stable and the highest VRTR values. The reason lies in
that all VMs in NEHFWPF are kept active, no matter how
many failures happen. The other three algorithms adopt elastic
resource provisioning mechanism and active VMs according to
the scheduling requirement. Moreover, they all take resubmis-
sion as a fault-tolerant strategy for either all or partial tasks. As
FR increases, more and more tasks, which select resubmission
as fault-tolerant strategy in initial scheduling phase, fail and
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
54
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 7.
The impact on VRTR as a function of FR.
Fig. 8.
The impact on QTC as a function of CCR.
then require additional VMs for resubmission. Consequently,
more VMs are activated, leading to larger VRTR values. Fig. 7
also reveals that HFWPF has the best VRTR values among all
algorithms. The reasons for this are the same as those explained
in Fig. 3.
5) Performance Impact of CCRs: We also study the perfor-
mance impact of CCR, which increases from 0.8 to 1.2 in steps
of 0.1. α, β and FR are set to 1.5, 0.3 and 7.5% respectively.
The inﬂuence of CCR on QTC is depicted in Fig. 8, from
which we can observe that the proposed HFWPF achieves the
best results among all compared algorithms, despite the fact
that all algorithms exhibit large QTC values for different CCRs.
The reasons are similar to those explained for Fig. 3. Fig. 8
also indicates that each of the compared algorithms exhibits a
decreasing trend in QTC with an increase in CCR. The reason
for this lies in the fact that the number of edges, along with the
dependencies among tasks, increases with the increase of CCR.
The increasing interdependencies between tasks can lead to a
situation where the delayed completion time of one task, caused
byresourcefailuresoruncertaintaskexecutiondurations,affects
an ever-growing number of other tasks. Therefore, the QTCs
decrease with an increase in CCR.
The inﬂuence of CCR on VRTR is depicted in Fig. 9, illustrat-
ing that all compared algorithms exhibit a decreasing trend in
VRTR as CCR increases. The reason for this is that a VM allo-
cated to a task must remain active for either task communication
or task execution. An increase in CCR corresponds to an increase
in average communication time and a decrease in average task
execution time. The reduction in task execution time results in
Fig. 9.
The impact on VRTR as a function of CCR.
Fig. 10.
The structures of four real-world workﬂows.
smaller VRTR values for all compared algorithms. Additionally,
the average communication time further diminishes VRTRs, as
successful communication requires at least two active resources,
leading to the use of more VMs. Nevertheless, HFWPF achieves
the best VRTRs among all compared algorithms across different
CCRs, conﬁrming that HFWPF consumes the fewest resources.
B. Evaluation on Simulated Cloud Platform With Real-World
Workﬂows
Besides randomly generated workﬂows, four real-world
workﬂows as shown in Fig. 10, i.e., Montage, CyberShake,
Epigenomics and Inspiral [41], are selected to evaluate the
algorithms. These workﬂows have been widely used to measure
the performance of scheduling algorithms [1], [2], [3], [4]. The
features of these instances used in our experiments are given in
Table IV. More detail on these workﬂows were given in [41].
The deadline of each workﬂow instance, the expected value and
variance of task execution time are set by Exp. (14) and Exp.
(15), where α and β are set to 1.5 and 0.3 respectively. FR is set
to 7.5% in this section.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
REN AND YAO: HYBRID FAULT-TOLERANT WORKFLOW SCHEDULING WITH PERFORMANCE FLUCTUATED CLOUD RESOURCES
55
TABLE IV
PARAMETERS FOR THE REAL-WORLD WORKFLOWS
TABLE V
PERFORMANCE FOR REAL-WORLD WORKFLOWS
The experimental results are presented in Table V, which
demonstrate that HFWPF outperforms other algorithms in prac-
tical scenarios. In terms of QTCs, HFWPF achieves the best
outcomes for two real-world workﬂows: Epigenomics and In-
spiral, while NEHFWPF yields the best results for Montage
and CyberShake. Furthermore, both HFWPF and NEHFWPF
surpass the other two algorithms. NEHFWPF obtains the highest
QTC values on Montage and CyberShake because all available
VMs remain active, and no initial time is required to boot them.
However, as shown in Table V, HFWPF is only slightly lower
than NEHFWPF on Montage and CyberShake and performs bet-
ter on the other workﬂows. This can be attributed to the effective
algorithm used in HFWPF for handling resource failures and
performance ﬂuctuations, as discussed in Section IV. Regarding
VRTRs, HFWPF also achieves the best results. This observa-
tion once again highlights that HFWPF can effectively reduce
resource consumption due to its elastic resource provisioning
and VM shutdown mechanisms. The results further indicate that
HFWPF can enhance resource utilization and decrease resource
costs by fully utilizing existing resources while accounting for
both resource failures and performance ﬂuctuations.
C. Evaluation on Real Cloud Platform
We also conduct experiments on a real cloud platform to
evaluate the performance of the compared algorithms.
The cloud platform under consideration comprises 18 diverse
hosts, inclusive of 13 Sugon I620-G10, 1 Sugon I620-G15, 2
Dell R720, and 2 Dell T630. The detailed speciﬁcations of
these hosts are meticulously enumerated in Table VI. All hosts
are seamlessly connected via an H3C S5100 switch, ensuring
efﬁcient network communication. Each host is virtualized to
multiple VMs. Four types of VM are created in this experi-
ment. The speciﬁcations for each type of VM are methodically
TABLE VI
THE CONFIGURATION OF HOSTS
TABLE VII
THE CONFIGURATION OF VMS
Fig. 11.
The QTC results on real cloud platform.
outlined in Table VII. We consider 160,000 face recognition
collected by a community access control system in 10 days
as experimental data. Each face recognition includes multiple
steps such as image acquisition, face detection, pre-processing,
feature extraction, feature matching, recognition decision and
log update. Therefore, they are workﬂow instances. The deadline
for each recognition is set to 2 seconds. During the experiment,
we unplugged the network cable of one Sugon I620-G10 server
to simulate resource failure. To clearly observe the overhead
caused by resource failures, we also conducted corresponding
experiments under condition with no resource failures.
The results about QTC on real cloud platform is shown in
Fig. 11, which indicates that all compared algorithms exhibited
a signiﬁcant decrease in QTC values after the occurrence of
resource failures. Fig. 11 also shows that ICFWS achieves the
worst results if no server fails, while the other three algorithms
yield similar outcomes and NEHFWPF achieves the best results.
HFWPFandNEHFWPFyieldsimilarQTCresults,andbothout-
perform the other comparative algorithms when one server fails.
NOSF yields the worst results among all compared algorithms
when one server fails. The reason lies in the fact that HFWPF
and its variant, NEHFWPF, are tailored for cloud workﬂow
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
56
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SERVICES COMPUTING, VOL. 19, NO. 1, JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 12.
The VRTR results on real cloud platform.
scheduling with both resource failures and uncertain task execu-
tion time. ICFWS and NOSF are designed for cloud workﬂow
scheduling with resource failures and uncertain task execution
time, respectively. However, ICFWS does not consider uncertain
task execution time, while NOSF does not consider resource fail-
ures. When comparing HFWPF and NEHFWPF, regardless of
resource failures, NEHFWPF consistently achieves better QTC
results than HFWPF. This is because all VMs in NEHFWPF
keep in an active state, reducing the setup times of VMs and
consequently improving their QTC values.
The results regarding VRTR on a real cloud platform are
illustrated in Fig. 12, which shows that HFWPF achieves the best
VRTR results among all algorithms in the presence of resource
failures, while NEHFWPF obtains the worst VRTR results.
When no resource failures occurred, NOSF achieves the best
VRTR results, whereas NEHFWPF still obtains the worst VRTR
results, maintaining the same VRTR performance as in the case
of resource failures. This is because both HFWPF and ICFWS
adopt elastic resource provisioning and hybrid fault-tolerance
mechanisms. However, ICFWS only considers resource failures
without accounting for uncertain task execution time. Although
NEHFWPF also employs a hybrid fault-tolerance strategy, its
VMs remain perpetually active. When no resource failures oc-
curred, NOSF does not reserve any resources for failures, while
the other three algorithms reserve resources for task replicas
during scheduling as replication is adopted in these algorithms,
thereby improving their VRTR values.
Upon simultaneously observing Figs. 11 and 12, it becomes
evident that HFWPF outperforms both NOSF and ICWFS in
terms of both QTR and VRTR. When comparing HFWPF with
NEHFWPF, it is noted that NEHFWPF achieves a slight lead
over HFWPF in QTR, but at the expense of a signiﬁcant VRTR
penalty. Consequently, HFWPF exhibits superior comprehen-
sive performance over NEHFWPF in actual cloud platforms.
In this study, the VM fault detection time is ignored. This
assumption is grounded in the efﬁciency of modern cloud mon-
itoring systems (e.g., those based on heartbeats or fail-signals),
which can typically detect a VM failure within a very short time
interval, often on the order of seconds [38], [39]. Given that
the VM boot time (Tboot = 15s) and the task execution times
(typically in the order of minutes) are the dominant factors in the
scheduling timeline, the inclusion of a second detection latency
would have a negligible impact on the overall comparative
results of the algorithms, which is the primary focus of this
performance evaluation. However, we acknowledge that this
simpliﬁcation might lead to a slight underestimation of the task
resubmission overhead in real-world systems. The performance
gap introduced by this assumption is expected to be consistent
across all compared algorithms, as they all would be affected
by a similar ﬁxed detection delay upon a fault. Therefore, while
the absolute values of metrics like QTC and VRTR might be
marginally more optimistic, the relative performance trends and
the superiority of HFWPF demonstrated in our experiments are
expected to hold robustly.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE RESEARCH
To deal with fault-tolerant cloud workﬂow scheduling with
performance ﬂuctuated resources, we have proposed a workﬂow
scheduling algorithm called HFWPF in this paper. It consists of
four phases, including preprocessing, initial scheduling, online
scheduling and online adjustment. The preprocessing divides
the deadline of one accepted workﬂow instance into multi-
ple subdeadlines for all tasks. The initial scheduling selects
a fault-tolerant strategy from either replication or resubmis-
sion for each task. It also selects served VM for each task.
For tasks with resubmission, the online scheduling is used for
online resubmission for faults. The online adjustment resizes
the subdeadlines of some unexecuted tasks to make full use of
time slots. Furthermore, HFWPF also adopts an elastic resource
provisioning mechanism to satisfy the dynamic scheduling re-
quirements. The experiments show that HFWPF can enhance
the resource utilization and guarantee worﬂow execution time
simultaneously in the context of fault tolerance and performance
ﬂuctuation.
The choice of fault-tolerant strategy from resubmission and
replication for each task is only decided by the task slack time
in this work. Expanding this research to include some other
factors, such as cost or reliability, is a promising avenue for
future work. Furthermore, VM migration and consolidation is
an effective technique for reducing energy consumption and
enhancing resource utilization. Extending this work to consider
VMmigrationandconsolidationis apromisingavenuefor future
work.
REFERENCES
[1] H. Chen, X. Zhu, G. Liu, and W. Pedrycz, “Uncertainty-aware online
scheduling for real-time workﬂows in cloud service environment,” IEEE
Trans. Serv. Comput., vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 1167–1178, Jul./Aug. 2021.
[2] J. Liu et al., “Online multi-workﬂow scheduling under uncertain task
execution time in IaaS clouds,” IEEE Trans. Cloud Comput., vol. 9, no. 3,
pp. 1180–1194, Third Quarter 2021.
[3] Y. Ding, G. Yao, and K. Hao, “Fault-tolerant elastic scheduling algorithm
for workﬂow in cloud systems,” Inf. Sci., vol. 393, pp. 47–65, 2017.
[4] G. Yao, Y. Ding, and K. Hao, “Using imbalance characteristic for fault-
tolerant workﬂow scheduling in cloud systems,” IEEE Trans. Parallel
Distrib. Syst., vol. 28, no. 12, pp. 3671–3683, Dec. 2017.
[5] H. Chen, J. Zhu, Z. Zhang, M. Ma, and X. Shen, “Real-time workﬂows
oriented online scheduling in uncertain cloud environment,” J. Supercom-
puting, vol. 73, no. 11, pp. 4906–4922, 2017.
[6] J. Schad, J. Dittrich, and J.-A. Quiané-Ruiz, “Runtime measurements in
the cloud: Observing, analyzing, and reducing variance,” Proc. VLDB
Endowment, vol. 3, no. 1/2, pp. 460–471, 2010.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
REN AND YAO: HYBRID FAULT-TOLERANT WORKFLOW SCHEDULING WITH PERFORMANCE FLUCTUATED CLOUD RESOURCES
57
[7] G. Yao, Q. Ren, X. Li, S. Zhao, and R. Ruiz, “A hybrid fault-
tolerant
scheduling
for
deadline-constrained
tasks
in
cloud
sys-
tem,” IEEE Trans. Serv. Comput., vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 1371–1384,
May/Jun. 2022.
[8] K. Plankensteiner and R. Prodan, “Meeting soft deadlines in scientiﬁc
workﬂows using resubmission impact,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst.,
vol. 23, no. 5, pp. 890–901, May 2012.
[9] N. Yigitbasi, O. Sonmez, A. Iosup, and D. Epema, “Performance evalua-
tion of overload control in multi-cluster grids,” in Proc. IEEE/ACM 12th
Int. Conf. Grid Comput., 2011, pp. 173–180.
[10] D. Cotroneo, R. Natella, and S. Rosiello, “Overload control for virtual
network functions under CPU contention,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst.,
vol. 99, pp. 164–176, 2019.
[11] W. Qiu, Z. Zheng, X. Wang, X. Yang, and M. R. Lyu, “Reliability-based
design optimization for cloud migration,” IEEE Trans. Serv. Comput.,
vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 223–236, Second Quarter 2014.
[12] B. Javadi, D. Kondo, J. Vincent, and D. P. Anderson, “Discovering sta-
tistical models of availability in large distributed systems: An empirical
study of SETI@home,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 22, no. 11,
pp. 1896–1903, Nov. 2011.
[13] R. Jhawar, V. Piuri, and M. D. Santambrogio, “Fault tolerance management
in cloud computing: A system-level perspective,” IEEE Syst. J., vol. 7,
no. 2, pp. 288–297, Jun. 2013.
[14] B. Wu, K. Hao, X. Cai, and T. Wang, “An integrated algorithm for multi-
agent fault-tolerant scheduling based on MOEA,” Future Gener. Comput.
Syst., vol. 94, pp. 51–61, 2019.
[15] G. Yao, Y. Ding, L. Ren, K. Hao, and L. Chen, “An immune system-
inspired rescheduling algorithm for workﬂow in cloud systems,” Knowl.
Based Syst., vol. 99, no. 99, pp. 39–50, 2016.
[16] X. Zhu, J. Wang, H. Guo, D. Zhu, L. T. Yang, and L. Liu, “Fault-tolerant
scheduling for real-time scientiﬁc workﬂows with elastic resource provi-
sioning in virtualized clouds,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 27,
no. 12, pp. 3501–3517, Dec. 2016.
[17] Z. Li, H. Yu, G. Fan, and J. Zhang, “Cost-efﬁcient fault-tolerant workﬂow
scheduling for deadline-constrained microservice-based applications in
clouds,” IEEE Trans. Netw. Service Manag., vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 3220–3232,
Sep. 2023.
[18] T. Dong, F. Xue, H. Tang, and C. Xiao, “Deep reinforcement learning for
fault-tolerant workﬂow scheduling in cloud environment,” Appl. Intell.,
vol. 53, no. 9, pp. 9916–9932, 2023.
[19] M. Farid, R. Latip, M. Hussin, and N. A. W. A. Hamid, “A fault-intrusion-
tolerant system and deadline-aware algorithm for scheduling scientiﬁc
workﬂow in the cloud,” PeerJ Comput. Sci., vol. 7, 2021, Art. no. e747.
[20] A. R. Setlur, S. J. Nirmala, H. S. Singh, and S. Khoriya, “An efﬁcient
fault tolerant workﬂow scheduling approach using replication heuristics
and checkpointing in the cloud,” J. Parallel Distrib. Comput., vol. 136,
pp. 14–28, 2020.
[21] Z. Li, V. I. Chang, H. Hu, H. Hu, C. Li, and J. Ge, “Real-time and
dynamic fault-tolerant scheduling for scientiﬁc workﬂows in clouds,” Inf.
Sci., vol. 568, pp. 13–39, 2021.
[22] Z. Cai, X. Li, R. Ruiz, and Q. Li, “A delay-based dynamic scheduling
algorithm for bag-of-task workﬂows with stochastic task execution times
in clouds,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 71, pp. 57–72, 2017.
[23] M. A. Rodriguez and R. Buyya, “Deadline based resource provision-
ing and scheduling algorithm for scientiﬁc workﬂows on clouds,” IEEE
Trans. Cloud Comput., vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 222–235, Second Quarter
2014.
[24] R. N. Calheiros and R. Buyya, “Meeting deadlines of scientiﬁc workﬂows
in public clouds with tasks replication,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst.,
vol. 25, no. 7, pp. 1787–1796, Jul. 2014.
[25] L. Xing, M. Zhang, H. Li, M. Gong, J. Yang, and K. Wang, “Local search
driven periodic scheduling for workﬂows with random task runtime in
clouds,” Comput. Ind. Eng., vol. 168, 2022, Art. no. 108033.
[26] J. Xu, H. Yu, G. Fan, and J. Zhang, “Uncertainty-aware scheduling of
real-time workﬂows under deadline constraints on multi-cloud systems,”
Concurrency Computation: Pract. Experience, vol. 35, no. 5, 2023,
Art. no. e7562.
[27] K. Y. Rajput, X. Li, J. Zhang, and A. Lakhan, “A novel scheduling ap-
proach for spark workﬂow tasks with deadline and uncertain performance
in multi-cloud networks,” IEEE Trans. Cloud Comput., vol. 12, no. 4,
pp. 1145–1157, Fourth Quarter 2024.
[28] X. Chen, C. Lin, and B. Lin, “An intelligent workﬂow scheduling scheme
for complex network robustness in fuzzy edge-cloud environments,” IEEE
Trans. Netw. Sci. Eng., vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 1106–1123, Jan./Feb. 2024.
[29] B. Lin, C. Lin, X. Chen, M. Lin, G. Huang, and Z. Xu, “Cost-driven
scheduling for workﬂow decision making systems in fuzzy edge-cloud
environments,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Sci. Eng., vol. 22, pp. 3756–3771,
2025.
[30] Y. Pan et al., “A novel approach to scheduling workﬂows upon cloud
resources with ﬂuctuating performance,” Mobile Netw. Appl., vol. 25,
pp. 690–700, 2020.
[31] J. Bader, F. Lehmann, L. Thamsen, U. Leser, and O. Kao, “Lotaru:
Locally predicting workﬂow task runtimes for resource management on
heterogeneous infrastructures,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 150,
pp. 171–185, 2024.
[32] Y. Yang, H. Shen, and H. Tian, “Scheduling workﬂow tasks with
unknown task execution time by combining machine-learning and
greedy-optimization,” IEEE Trans. Serv. Comput., vol. 17, no. 3,
pp. 1181–1195, May/Jun. 2024.
[33] S.Qin,D.Pi,Z.Shao,andY.Xu,“Adiscreteinterval-basedmulti-objective
memetic algorithm for scheduling workﬂow with uncertainty in cloud
environment,” IEEE Trans. Netw. Service Manag., vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 3020–
3037, Sep. 2023.
[34] L. Ye, Y. Xia, L. Yang, and C. Yan, “SHWS: Stochastic hybrid workﬂows
dynamic scheduling in cloud container services,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Sci.
Eng., vol. 19, no. 3, pp. 2620–2636, Jul. 2022.
[35] A. Taghinezhad-Niar, S. Pashazadeh, and J. Taheri, “QoS-aware online
scheduling of multiple workﬂows under task execution time uncertainty
in clouds,” Cluster Comput., vol. 25, no. 6, pp. 3767–3784, 2022.
[36] S. Abrishami, M. Naghibzadeh, and D. H. Epema, “Cost-driven scheduling
ofgridworkﬂowsusingpartialcriticalpaths,”IEEETrans.ParallelDistrib.
Syst., vol. 23, no. 8, pp. 1400–1414, Aug. 2012.
[37] H. Topcuoglu, S. Hariri, and M.-Y. Wu, “Performance-effective and low-
complexity task scheduling for heterogeneous computing,” IEEE Trans.
Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 260–274, Mar. 2002.
[38] D.-M. Bui, T. Huynh-The, and S. Lee, “Early fault detection in IaaS cloud
computing based on fuzzy logic and prediction technique,” J. Supercom-
puting, vol. 74, pp. 5730–5745, 2018.
[39] Y.-L. Lee, D. Liang, and W.-J. Wang, “Optimal online liveness fault detec-
tion for multilayer cloud computing systems,” IEEE Trans. Dependable
Secure Comput., vol. 19, no. 5, pp. 3464–3477, Sep./Oct. 2022.
[40] W. Chen and E. Deelman, “WorkﬂowSim: A toolkit for simulating scien-
tiﬁc workﬂows in distributed environments,” in Proc. IEEE 8th Int. Conf.
E-Sci., 2012, pp. 1–8.
[41] E. Deelman et al., “Pegasus, a workﬂow management system for science
automation,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 46, pp. 17–35, 2015.
Qian Ren received the MS degree from the Hefei
University of Technology, Hefei, China, in 2012. She
is currently an associate professor with the College
of Computer and Information Engineering, Chuzhou
University, China. She is the author or co-author
more than 10 academic papers, some of which have
been published in international journals such as IEEE
Transactions on Services Computing; IEEE ACCESS;
Sensors. Her research interests include cloud resource
scheduling and Internet of Things.
Guangshun Yao received the PhD degree from
Donghua University, China, in 2016. He is a profes-
sor with the College of Computer and Information
Engineering, Chuzhou University, China. He is the
author or co-author more than 50 academic papers,
some of which have been published in international
journals such as IEEE Transactions on Parallel and
Distributed Systems; IEEE Transactions on Services
Computing; Information Sciences; Knowledge-Based
Systems; Soft Computing. His research interests in-
clude cloud computing and Internet of Things.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Thammasat University. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 07:57:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
